Why it's used
Amrizole tablet is a prescription medicine that is used to treat a sexually transmitted infection (called symptomatic trichomoniasis). This medicine works by interacting with DNA that interferes with the DNA synthesis that leads to the end of bacteria. Amrizole tablet is also used to treat a genitourinary infection (called asymptomatic trichomoniasis), to treat asymptomatic sexual partners, to treat a parasitic infection of the colon (amebiasis) and a parasitic infection of the small intestine (giardiasis), to treat certain anaerobic bacterial infections that include intra-abdominal infections, skin and skin structure infections, female reproductive organ (gynecologic) infections, blood poisoning (bacterial septicemia), lower respiratory tract infection, serious heart infection (endocarditis), central nervous system infections, and bone and joint infections, to prevent the infections that may occur before, during or after the operation of the intestine (elective colorectal surgery), to treat acute dental infections e.g. painful infection of the gums (acute ulcerative gingivitis or acute pericoronitis) and pus inside the teeth (acute apical infections), and to treat anaerobically-infected leg ulcers and pressure sores.
When not to use
Amrizole tablet will not work against viral infections such as the common cold.
Nitroimidazole Antimicrobial
Amrizole belongs to the Nitroimidazole Antimicrobial class of medicines. Nitroimidazole Antimicrobial.
How to use
Read the directions on the product label, patient guide, or medicine guide provided by the medicine company or your pharmacist before starting to use Amrizole tablet. If you have any questions related to this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. Use this medicine as recommended by your doctor.
Amrizole tablet is used with or after food. Amrizole should be swallowed with water. It should not be chewed.
The typical dose of Amrizole is 750 mg three times daily orally for 5 to 10 days. The usual dose for children is 35 to 50 mg/kg/24 hours or 15.9 to 22.7 mg/lb/kg/24 hours, orally for 10 days divided into three doses. The maximum adult dose of Amrizole is 2000 mg in a day. This medicine is typically used for a period of 7 days for trichomoniasis, 5-10 days for amebiasis, 7-10 days for anaerobic bacterial infections, 5-7 days for bacterial vaginosis, 3-10 days for giardiasis, 3 days for acute ulcerative gingivitis, 3-7 days for acute dental infections, 7 days for leg ulcers and pressure sores, and 7-14 days for eradication of Helicobacter pylori.
This medicine should be used on an as-needed basis. Infections of the bone and joint, endocardium, and lower respiratory tract may require longer treatment. You should continue to use this medicine as directed by the doctor even if you feel well.
Talk to your doctor if your condition does not improve or worsens. Tell your doctor if stomach pain, abnormally low weight, nausea, vomiting, fever, feeling of discomfort, fatigue, yellowing of the skin, dark urine, and discolored stools or itching. If you have issues with the health of your liver, For patients with severe liver damage (Child-Pugh C), the dose of Amrizole should be reduced by 50%.
Your doctor may recommend a lower initial dose of this medicine to see the impact of this medicine on the body. Please follow your doctor's directions. Older patients may see an increase in the incidence of side-effects with this medicine. As a result, a lower dose may be recommended for older patients.
If you are giving Amrizole tablet to a child, be sure to use a product that is meant for children. Before giving this medicine to a child, use the child's weight or age to find the right dose from the product package. You can also read the dosage section of this page to know the correct dose for your child. Else, consult with your doctor and follow their recommendation.
To decrease the possibility of side-effects, you might be recommended to use the extended-release form of this medicine by your doctor. The extended-release medicine helps in maintaining a steady level of the medicine in your body for a longer period of time. Do not crush or chew the medicine, unless indicated on the package or by your doctor.
Amrizole is intended for intravenous (into the veins) use only. Amrizole is to be given slowly by intravenous drip infusion only, either as a constant or periodic infusion. Intravenous admixtures comprising Amrizole and other drugs should be avoided. Amrizole Injection, USP is a ready-to-use isotonic solution. There is no requirement of dilution or buffering and do not refrigerate the injection.
Avoid the consumption of alcohol with Amrizole.
Your doctor may request that specific lab tests be performed before you start using Amrizole tablet. You may need to have Antibiotic Susceptibility test. This test helps the doctor in selecting an appropriate antibacterial drug for starting the therapy. Your doctor may request liver function test test. Liver function tests must be done just before to the start of treatment, throughout and after the end of treatment until liver function is within average ranges, or till the baseline values are achieved. Amrizole should be discontinued if the liver function tests become markedly raised during treatment.
You should store Amrizole tablet below 25°C (77°F), away from excess heat and moisture, and protect from light. Store the medicine away from the reach of children and pets.
Medicines may be prescribed for uses other than those listed in the medicine guide. Do not use Amrizole tablet for conditions for which it was not prescribed. Do not give Amrizole tablet to other people who might have the same conditions or symptoms that you have. Self-medication may harm them.
Read more: What are the uses of Amrizole?
How to take Amrizole
Your dose and how often you take Amrizole will depend on the following factors:
age
weight
patient's health
the health of the patient's kidneys
response to the medicine
Amrizole Dosage
Dosage for sexually transmitted infection caused by a parasite (trichomoniasis)
Adult
Recommended: 2000 mg as a single dose or 1000 mg in two divided doses on the same day or 250 mg three times a day for seven days.
Children (Children 1 to 10 years)
Recommended: 40 mg/kg (18.18 mg/lb) in a single dose or 15-30 mg/kg (6.8- 13.6 mg/lb) in a day divided in 2-3 doses
Maximum: 2000 mg per dose
Dosage for parasitic infection of the colon (amebiasis)
Adult
Recommended: 500 mg or 750 mg three times daily for 5 to 10 days
Children
Recommended: 35 to 50 mg/kg/day (15.9-22.7 mg/lb/day) divided into three doses daily for 10 days
Dosage for anaerobic bacterial infections
Adult
Recommended: 7.5 mg/kg (3.3 mg/lb) (approximately 500 mg for a 70 kg/154 lb adults) every six hours for 7 to 10 days
Maximum: 4000 mg in a day for 7 to 10 days
Dosage for bacterial overgrowth in the vagina (bacterial vaginosis)
Adult (adults and children over 10 years)
Recommended: 2000 mg as a single dose on the same day or 400 mg twice a day for 5 to 7 days
Dosage for a parasitic infection of the small intestine (giardiasis)
Adult (adults and children over 10 years)
Recommended: 2000 mg once a day for 3 days or 400 mg three times a day for 5 days or 500 mg twice a day for 7-10 days
Children (children 7 to 10 years)
Recommended: 1000 mg once a day for 3 days
Children (children 3 to 7 years)
Recommended: 600-800 mg once daily for 3 days
Children (children 1 to 3 years)
Recommended: 500 mg once daily for 3 days
Dosage for infection of the gums (acute ulcerative gingivitis)
Adult (adults and children over 10 years)
Recommended: 200 mg three times a day for 3 days
Children (children 7 to 10 years)
Recommended: 100 mg three times daily for 3 days
Children (children 3 to 7 years)
Recommended: 100 mg twice daily for 3 days
Children (children 1 to 3 years)
Recommended: 50 mg three times daily for 3 days
Dosage for acute dental infections
Adult
Recommended: 200 mg three times a day for 3 to 7 days
Dosage for leg ulcers and pressure ulcers
Adult
Recommended: 400 mg three times daily for 7 days
Dosage for eradication of Helicobacter pylori bacteria
Children
Recommended: 20 mg/kg/day (9.09 mg/lb/day) for 7-14 days
Maximum: 500 mg for 7-14 days
Minimum Age
infants less than 8 weeks
Dosage calculation for children
To calculate the dosage for children please use the weight based dose calculator to calculate the appropriate dosage as per the weight of your child.
Forms
Tablet
Strength: 500 mg and 250 mg
Capsule
Strength: 375 mg and 500 mg
Cream
Strength: 7.5 mg/1g, 0.75%, 1%, 10 mg/1g, 10 mg/60g, and 10%
Gel
Strength: 7.5 mg/1g, 0.75%, 1%, 10 mg/1g, 65 mg/5g, and 13 mg/1g
Tablet, extended release, film coated
Strength: 750 mg
Injection, solution
Strength: 500 mg/100ml
Liquid
Strength: 5 mg
Missed Dose
A missed dose should be taken as early as you remember it. However, if the time for the next dose is almost there, then the missed dose should be skipped, and the regular dosing schedule should be continued. Avoid taking a repeated dose to make up for a missed one.
Overdose
What to do if you overdose on Amrizole?
There is no specific antidote for an overdose of Amrizole. In cases of massive overdose, supportive and symptomatic therapy should be started.
Symptoms of an overdose of Amrizole
If you use too much of this medicine, it could lead to dangerous levels of the medicine in your body. In such cases, symptoms of an overdose may include:
loss of body movements
nausea
nerve damage (peripheral neuropathy)
seizures
suicide attempts
vomiting
If you think you have overdosed on Amrizole tablet, call a poison control center immediately. You can look up the poison control center information from the Poison Center Finder at TabletWise.com.