Augmentin:
Generic name: amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 
Drug class: Beta-lactamase inhibitors
What is Augmentin?
Augmentin contains a combination of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium. Amoxicillin is a penicillin antibiotic that fights bacteria in the body. Clavulanate potassium is a beta-lactamase inhibitor that helps prevent certain bacteria from becoming resistant to amoxicillin.
Augmentin is prescription antibiotic used to treat many different infections caused by bacteria, such as sinusitis, pneumonia, ear infections, bronchitis, urinary tract infections, and infections of the skin.
Warnings
You should not use Augmentin if you have severe kidney disease, if you have had liver problems or jaundice while taking amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium, or if you are allergic to any penicillin or cephalosporin antibiotic, such as Amoxil, Ceftin, Cefzil, Moxatag, Omnicef, and others.
Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium can pass into breast milk and may harm a nursing baby. Do not use this medication without telling your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby.
Augmentin can make birth control pills less effective. Ask your doctor about using a non-hormone method of birth control (such as a condom, diaphragm, spermicide) to prevent pregnancy while taking amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium.
To make sure Augmentin is safe for you, tell your doctor if you have:
•	liver disease (hepatitis or jaundice);
•	kidney disease; or
•	mononucleosis.
The liquid may contain phenylalanine. Tell your doctor if you have phenylketonuria (PKU).
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or breastfeeding.
Augmentin can make birth control pills less effective. Ask your doctor about using a non-hormonal birth control (condom, diaphragm, cervical cap, or contraceptive sponge) to prevent pregnancy.
Do not give this medicine to a child without medical advice.

How To Take Augmentin
Take Augmentin exactly as prescribed. If you accidentally miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you can. If that catch-up dose comes at a time near your next dose, skip the missed dose and then continue with your regular schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed dose.
Augmentin is available in liquid, extended-release tablets and chewable tablets. 
Don’t chew or crush extended-release tablets. Swallow the pill whole or break it into two halves and swallow each half at a time. Talk to your doctor if you have trouble swallowing a whole or half pill.
Shake the liquid form before you measure your dose. It’s better to use the dosing syringe provided rather than a kitchen spoon.
Both the 250 mg and 500 mg tablets of Augmentin contain the same amount of clavulanic acid. Consumers should not substitute two 250 mg tablets for one 500 mg tablet. Similarly, the 250 mg chewable Augmentin tablet and 250 mg regular tablet also contain different amounts of clavulanic acid and should not be taken interchangeably.
Take the full dosage of medication as prescribed even after you feel better. Do not stop or adjust your dosage without consulting your doctor.
What happens if I miss a dose?
Take the medicine as soon as you can, but skip the missed dose if it is almost time for your next dose. Do not take two doses at one time.
What happens if I overdose?
Seek emergency medical attention.
Overdose can cause nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, diarrhea, skin rash, drowsiness, hyperactivity, and decreased urination.
What to avoid
Avoid taking this medicine together with or just after eating a high-fat meal. This will make it harder for your body to absorb the medication.
Antibiotic medicines can cause diarrhea, which may be a sign of a new infection. If you have diarrhea that is watery or bloody, call your doctor before using anti-diarrhea medicine.
Augmentin side effects
Serious side effects
Call your doctor right away if you have serious side effects. Call 911 if your symptoms feel life threatening or if you think you’re having a medical emergency.
Serious side effects and their symptoms can include the following:
•	Liver problems. It’s not common, but some people who take Augmentin can develop liver damage. This seems to be more common in older adults and those who take Augmentin for a long time. Usually these problems go away when the medication is stopped, but in some cases, they may be severe and require treatment. Tell your doctor if you develop symptoms of liver problems while taking Augmentin. Your doctor may do blood tests to check for liver damage. Symptoms can include:
o	abdominal pain
o	fatigue
o	yellowing of your skin or the whites of your eyes
•	Intestinal infection. Some people who take antibiotics, including Augmentin, can develop an intestinal infection called Clostridioides difficile (C. diff). Tell your doctor if you develop symptoms of this infection. Symptoms can include:
o	severe diarrhea that doesn’t go away
o	abdominal pain or cramping
o	nausea
o	blood in your stool
•	Severe skin reactions. Serious skin reactions can occur with Augmentin treatment. These reactions can include Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP). Symptoms of a severe skin reaction can include:
o	red or discolored skin rash
o	blisters and skin peeling
o	fever
o	flu-like symptoms
•	Allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions can occur in some people who take Augmentin. This is more likely to happen in people with a penicillin allergy. You may not be able to take this medication again if you’ve ever had a serious allergic reaction to it. Taking it again could be fatal. If you’ve had a reaction to this medication in the past, talk with your doctor before taking it again. Symptoms of an allergic reaction can include:
o	severe skin rash
o	hives
o	swelling of the lips, tongue, throat
o	trouble breathing
Rash
Many medications, including Augmentin, can cause a rash in some people. This is a common side effect of Augmentin, which is a penicillin-type antibiotic. This class of antibiotics causes skin rash more often than most other kinds of antibiotics.
Raised, itchy, white, red, or otherwise discolored bumps that occur after the first few doses of Augmentin may indicate an allergy to the medication. If this occurs, contact your doctor. If you have an allergic reaction, you may need to be treated with a different antibiotic.
Rashes that develop several days after you take the medication and appear as flat, red patches often indicate a different kind of rash that’s not caused by an allergic reaction. These usually go away on their own after a few days.
Fatigue
Fatigue is not a common side effect of Augmentin. However, it’s common for people who are fighting infections to feel fatigued, tired, or weak. If you become fatigued after starting Augmentin, or your symptoms are not improving, talk with your doctor.
Yeast infection
Vaginal yeast infections can sometimes occur after treatment with antibiotics, including Augmentin. If you’ve never had a yeast infection before and think you might have one, see your doctor for a diagnosis and treatment.
Side effects in children
Children who take Augmentin can experience the same side effects as adults.
In addition to those side effects, children can experience tooth discoloration. Augmentin use can cause a brown, gray, or yellow staining of children’s teeth. In most cases, brushing or dental cleaning can reduce or remove the discoloration.

What other drugs will affect Augmentin?
Tell your doctor about all your other medicines, especially:
•	allopurinol;
•	probenecid; or
•	a blood thinner - warfarin, Coumadin, Jantoven.

Drugs that could have adverse interactions with Augmentin include:
•	Studies have shown that when ampicillin, a penicillin drug, and allopurinol, used to reduce uric acid in the body, are used together, the risk of rashes increases. However, it is not clear if this is also the case when Augmentin and allopurinol are used simultaneously.
•	Studies also show that probenecid, used to treat gout, impacts the body’s system that eliminates amoxicillin in urine. When probenecid and Augmentin are taken at the same time, blood levels of amoxicillin may become too high. Taking them at the same time is not recommended.
•	Augmentin can alter blood-work results and taking Warfarin and Augmentin together can increase your risk of bleeding. Your doctors may adjust the dosage of other medications or monitor you closely for side effects.


