Betadine:
Generic name(s): bacitracin zinc-polymyxin B

Uses
This combination product is used to treat minor wounds (such as cuts, scrapes, burns) and to help prevent or treat mild skin infections. Minor skin infections and wounds usually heal without treatment, but some minor skin wounds may heal faster when an antibiotic is applied to the affected area. This product contains antibiotics that work by slowing or stopping the growth of bacteria.
How to use Betadine Antibiotic/Moisturize Ointment
This medication is for use on the skin only. Follow all directions on the product package, or use as directed by your doctor. Wash your hands before using. Avoid getting this product in your eyes or inside the mouth. If this occurs, wipe off the medication and rinse thoroughly with water. Do not use inside the nose unless directed by your doctor.
Clean and dry the affected area as directed. If you are using the ointment or cream, apply a small amount of the medication in a thin layer on the skin, usually 1 to 3 times daily or as directed by your doctor. Rub in gently if your condition permits. If you are using the powder, apply a light dusting of the powder on the area. Cover with a bandage if directed to do so. Wash your hands after use.
Do not use large amounts of this medication, apply it more often, or use it for a longer period than directed. Your condition may not improve faster, and the risk for side effects may be increased.
Use this medication regularly in order to get the most benefit from it. To help you remember, use it at the same times each day.
Side Effects
Burning, redness, or irritation of the skin may occur. If any of these effects last or get worse, tell your doctor or pharmacist promptly.
If your doctor has prescribed this medication, remember that your doctor has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects. Many people using this medication do not have serious side effects.
Tell your doctor right away if you have any serious side effects, including: balance/hearing problems, small red bumps on the skin (folliculitis).
Rarely, use of this medication for prolonged or repeated periods may result in a fungal infection or a different bacterial skin infection. Contact your doctor if you notice any new unusual skin symptoms (such as scaling, swelling, hot skin) while using this medication. A different medication may need to be used.
A very serious allergic reaction to this drug is rare. However, get medical help right away if you notice any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including: rash, itching/swelling (especially of the face/tongue/throat), severe dizziness, trouble breathing.

Precautions
Before using this product, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to any of its ingredients; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Talk to your pharmacist for more details.
Before using this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist your medical history, especially of: other skin conditions (including eczema, viral skin infections such as shingles, chickenpox, cold sores).
Before having surgery, tell your doctor or dentist about all the products you use (including prescription drugs, nonprescription drugs, and herbal products).
During pregnancy, this medication should be used only when clearly needed. Discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.

In-Depth Precautions and Warning
Drug Warnings
Betadine Ointment is for external use only. Do not swallow it; in case of accidental swallowing, please seek medical help immediately. 
Do not use Betadine Ointment, if you are allergic to povidone-iodine. Povidone Iodine may permanently discolour the gold jewellery; hence remove all kinds of jewellery while using it. 

Let your doctor know if you have an overactive thyroid gland (hyperthyroidism) or any other thyroid diseases, including swelling (nodular colloid goitre, endemic goitre or Hashimoto’s thyroiditis), liver, and kidney problems, before starting Betadine Ointment. Please tell your doctor if you are undergoing any lithium therapy or radioactive iodine treatment. Betadine Ointment should not be used before or after radioiodine scintigraphy or radioiodine treatment of thyroid carcinoma. 

Please consult your doctor if you are pregnant, planning to conceive or are a lactating mother before using Betadine Ointment.

Drug Interactions
Drug-Drug Interaction: Betadine Ointment may interact with anti-depressants (lithium), antiseptics and products containing enzymatic components, alkali, mercury, silver, hydrogen peroxide, tannic acid, octenidine, and taurolidine and should not be used simultaneously.

Drug-Food Interaction: No interaction found/established. 

Drug-Disease Interaction: Before using Betadine Ointment, let your doctor know if you have any allergic reactions to iodine or povidone, overactive thyroid gland (hyperthyroidism) or any other thyroid diseases, including swelling (nodular colloid goitre, endemic goitre or Hashimoto’s thyroiditis), liver, and kidney problems.

What should I know before using Betadine Ointment?
Betadine Ointment is for external use only. Do not swallow or put Betadine Ointment in the eyes. Please read the instructions leaflet of Betadine Ointment carefully before using. Your doctor will decide the dose and duration based on your condition.

When should I avoid using Betadine Ointment?
Betadine Ointment is not recommended for use if you are undergoing any lithium therapy or treatment involving radioactive iodine. Betadine Ointment should not be used before or after radioiodine scintigraphy or radioiodine treatment of thyroid carcinoma. In such conditions, please consult your doctor before using Betadine Ointment.

Does Betadine Ointment cause abnormal test results?
Betadine Ointment may interfere with thyroid function tests due to iodine absorption. Please consult your doctor before starting Betadine Ointment if you have any history of thyroid problems. Betadine Ointment may also show false-positive lab results, such as tests with toluidine or gum guaiac, to determine haemoglobin or glucose in the stool or the urine.

