brufen
Generic Name: ibuprofen

Description
Brufen 400 MG Tablet is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medicine, which is used to relieve pain associated with osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, menstrual cramps (dysmenorrhea), muscle aches, headache, back pain, dental pain, etc. It is also used to treat mild-to-moderate fever. Do not take this medicine if you have any bleeding disorder or asthma or a known allergy to this medicine. This medicine is not recommended for use children below 12 years of age.
Side effects
Major & minor side effects for Brufen 400 MG Tablet
•	Acid or sour stomach
•	Heartburn
•	Nausea and Vomiting
•	Abdominal discomfort
•	Constipation
•	Decreased urine output
•	Yellow colored eyes or skin
•	Skin rash
•	Ringing or buzzing in the ears
•	Nervousness
•	Loss of appetite
•	Headache
•	Dizziness
•	Diarrhea
•	Depression
•	Confusion
•	Impaired vision
•	Drowsiness
•	Difficulty in breathing
•	Jaundice
•	Menstrual Cramps (Dysmenorrhea)
This medicine is used to relieve excessive pain and cramps during menstruation, characterized by the symptoms such as a pressure-like feeling in the stomach; vomiting; loose stools; pain in the stomach, hips, lower back, inner thighs, etc.
•	Osteoarthritis
This medicine is used in the treatment of osteoarthritis, a condition characterized by joint pain and stiffness.
•	Rheumatoid Arthritis
This medicine is used to relieve symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis such as swelling, pain, and stiffness of joints.
•	Fever and Pain
This medicine is used to treat a mild-to-moderate fever and painful conditions such as muscle aches, headache, dental pain, back pain, etc.
•	
How long does it take for this medicine to take effect?
The effect of this medicine can be observed within 30 to 60 minutes of administration of the dose.
•	How long do the effects of this medicine last?
The effect of this medicine lasts for an average duration of 4 to 6 hours.
•	Is it safe to consume alcohol while taking this medicine?
Consumption of alcohol is not recommended during treatment with this medicine due to the increased risk of serious side effects such as severe gastrointestinal bleeding, dizziness, fatigue, weakness, rashes, nausea, joint pain, fever, etc. Avoid performing activities that need high mental alertness like driving a vehicle or operating heavy machinery if alcohol and this medicine are used together.
•	Is this a habit forming medicine?
No habit forming tendencies were reported.
•	Can this medicine be taken during pregnancy?
This medicine is not recommended for use in pregnant women unless absolutely necessary. All the risks and benefits should be discussed with the doctor before taking this medicine.
•	Can this medicine be taken while breast-feeding?
This medicine is not recommended for use in breastfeeding women unless absolutely necessary. All the risks and benefits should be discussed with the doctor before taking this medicine. Your doctor may prescribe a safer alternative based on your clinical condition.
When not to use?
Allergy
This medicine is not recommended for use in patients with a known allergy to ibuprofen, other NSAIDs, or any other inactive ingredients present in the formulation.
Asthma
This medicine is not recommended for use in patients with a known history of NSAID-induced asthma due to the increased risk of worsening of the patient's condition.
Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery (CABG)
This medicine is not recommended for use before, during, or after a coronary artery bypass graft surgery due to the increased risk of severe adverse effects.
Gastro-intestinal bleeding
This medicine is not recommended for use in patients with peptic ulcer disease or any gastrointestinal bleeding disorders due to the increased risk of worsening of the patient's condition.
Severe Liver/Kidney Impairment
This medicine is not recommended for use in patients suffering from severe impairment of liver or kidney function due to the increased risk of worsening of the patient's condition.
Warnings for special population
Pregnancy
This medicine is not recommended for use in pregnant women unless absolutely necessary. All the risks and benefits should be discussed with the doctor before taking this medicine.
Breast-feeding
This medicine is not recommended for use in breastfeeding women unless absolutely necessary. All the risks and benefits should be discussed with the doctor before taking this medicine. Your doctor may prescribe a safer alternative based on your clinical condition.
General warnings
Gastro-intestinal bleeding
This medicine may cause severe gastrointestinal bleeding and perforation after prolonged usage. These adverse events may occur with or without warning symptoms. This risk is especially higher in the elderly population and in patients with a history of gastrointestinal diseases. Appropriate dose adjustments or replacement with a suitable alternative may be required based on the clinical condition.
Kidney/Liver Disease
This medicine should be used with extreme caution in patients with kidney/liver disease due to the increased risk of adverse effects. Report any unusual symptoms to the doctor on priority. Close monitoring of kidney/liver function, appropriate dose adjustments, or replacement with a suitable alternative may be required in some cases based on the clinical condition.
Hypertension
This medicine should be used with caution in patients with hypertension (increased blood pressure) due to the increased risk of worsening of the condition. Close monitoring of blood pressure is necessary while receiving this medicine. Appropriate dose adjustments or replacement with a suitable alternative may be required in some cases based on the clinical condition.
Elderly population
This medicine should be used with caution in the elderly population above 65 years of age, due to the increased risk of severe adverse effects. These patients should be started at lower doses to check for tolerance. Close monitoring of renal and liver function may be necessary for such patients based on the clinical condition.
Use in children
This medicine is not recommended for use in patients less than 12 years of age since the safety and effectiveness of use are not clinically established.
Hyperkalemia
This medicine may increase serum potassium concentration in some patients. Potassium levels should be checked in patients receiving this medicine Appropriate dose adjustments or replacement with a suitable alternative may be required in some cases based on the clinical condition.
Heart disease
This medicine should be used with caution in patients with heart diseases due to the increased risk of adverse effects on the heart, especially after prolonged use. Appropriate dose adjustments or replacement with a suitable alternative may be required based on the clinical condition.
Driving or operating machinery
Use of this medicine may cause drowsiness or dizziness in some patients. It is advised that you do not perform any activities such as driving a vehicle or operating machinery if you experience any of these symptoms during treatment with this medicine.
Skin rash
This medicine may cause fatal skin allergies without any warnings in some patients. Signs and symptoms such as rashes, hives, fever, or other allergic symptoms should be reported to the doctor without any delay. Appropriate corrective measures, dose adjustments, or replacement with a suitable alternative may be required based on the clinical condition.
Dosage
Missed Dose
Take the missed dose as soon as you remember. If it is almost the time for your next dose, skip the missed dose. Do not double your dose to make up for the missed one.
Overdose
Seek emergency medical treatment or contact the doctor in case of overdose. 
Interactions
All drugs interact differently for person to person. You should check all the possible interactions with your doctor before starting any medicine.
Interaction with Alcohol
Description
N/A
Instructions
Consumption of alcohol is not recommended during treatment with this medicine due to the increased risk of serious side effects such as severe gastrointestinal bleeding, dizziness, fatigue, weakness, rashes, nausea, joint pain, fever, etc. Avoid performing activities that need high mental alertness like driving a vehicle or operating heavy machinery if alcohol and this medicine are used together.
Interaction with Medicine
Methotrexate
Leflunomide
Corticosteroids
Aspirin
Antihypertensives
Anticoagulants
Disease interactions
Fluid Retention and edema
This medicine may cause fluid retention and edema in some patients. Close monitoring of blood pressure, electrolyte levels, and heart function may be required based on the clinical condition. Appropriate dose adjustments or replacement with a suitable alternative may be necessary in some cases based on the clinical condition.
Anemia
This medicine should be used with caution in patients with a known history of anemia due to the increased risk of worsening of the patient's condition. Appropriate dose adjustments or replacement with a suitable alternative may be required based on the clinical condition of the patient.
Gastro-Intestinal toxicity
This medicine may cause severe gastrointestinal bleeding and perforation after prolonged usage. These adverse events may occur with or without warning symptoms. This risk is especially higher in the elderly population and in patients with a history of gastrointestinal diseases. Appropriate dose adjustments or replacement with a suitable alternative may be required based on the clinical condition.
Food interactions
Information not available.
Lab interactions
Information not available.
This is not an exhaustive list of possible drug interactions. You should consult your doctor about all the possible interactions of the drugs you’re taking.
General Instructions
Take this medicine with or immediately after food. Do not take in larger amounts than advised/prescribed. Consult the doctor if you experience any undesirable effects. Do not stop taking the medicine before completion of the course/without consulting your doctor.

