ceftriaxone 
Dosage form: injection, powder, for solution
Drug class: Third generation cephalosporins
CEFTRIAXONE belongs to the group of cephalosporin antibiotics used to treat bacterial infections of the brain, lungs, middle ear, abdomen, urinary tract, kidneys, bones, joints, skin, soft tissues, blood, heart, chest, lime disease (caused by tick bites), and gonorrhoea (sexually transmitted disease). Bacterial infections are caused due to the multiplication of harmful bacteria inside or on the body.
CEFTRIAXONE contains 'Ceftriaxone', which works by interfering with the formation of bacterial cell wall, thereby kills the bacteria. Thus, CEFTRIAXONE helps in treating bacterial infection.
In some cases, CEFTRIAXONE may cause side-effects such as diarrhoea, rashes, changes in results of blood and liver tests, and abnormalities (increase/decrease) in the number of white blood cells and platelets. Although not everybody experiences these side effects, if they occur consult your doctor.
Uses of CEFTRIAXONE
Bacterial infections
Medicinal Benefits
CEFTRIAXONE belongs to the group of antibiotic medicines called cephalosporins used to treat bacterial infections of the brain, lungs, middle ear, abdomen, urinary tract, kidneys, bones, joints, skin, soft tissues, blood, heart, chest, lime disease (caused by tick bites), and gonorrhoea (sexually transmitted disease). CEFTRIAXONE is a broad-spectrum antibiotic that is effective against gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria, aerobic and some anaerobic bacteria. CEFTRIAXONE works by preventing the formation of bacterial cell covering, which is necessary for their survival. Thereby, kills the bacteria and helps in treating and preventing the spread of infections.
Directions for Use
CEFTRIAXONE will be administered by a healthcare professional. Do not self-administer.
Storage
Store in a cool and dry place away from sunlight
Side Effects of CEFTRIAXONE
•	Diarrhoea
•	Rashes
•	Changes in results of blood and liver tests
•	Abnormalities (increase/decrease) in the number of white blood cells and platelets
Side Effects
Swelling, redness, or pain at the injection site may occur. If any of these effects last or get worse, tell your doctor or pharmacist promptly.
Remember that this medication has been prescribed because your doctor has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects. Many people using this medication do not have serious side effects.
Tell your doctor right away if you have any serious side effects, including: easy bruising/bleeding, unusual tiredness, symptoms of gallbladder disease (such as stomach/abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting), signs of kidney problems (such as change in the amount of urine), pink/bloody/dark urine, painful/frequent urination, back/side pain, yellowing eyes/skin, uncontrollable movements, confusion, seizures.
This medication may rarely cause a severe intestinal condition due to a bacteria called C. difficile. This condition may occur during treatment or weeks to months after treatment has stopped. Tell your doctor right away if you develop: diarrhea that doesn't stop, abdominal or stomach pain/cramping, blood/mucus in your stool.
If you have these symptoms, do not use anti-diarrhea or opioid products because they may make symptoms worse.

In-Depth Precautions and Warning
Drug Warnings
Before starting CEFTRIAXONE, please inform your doctor if you are allergic to any of the components in CEFTRIAXONE or against any antibiotic. Talk to your doctor if you have/had received calcium-containing products recently, had diarrhoea after taking antibiotics, inflammation of the bowel, kidney stones, or any other illness. Consult your doctor if you are pregnant or breastfeeding. Avoid alcohol consumption while taking CEFTRIAXONE to prevent unpleasant side effects. CEFTRIAXONE may cause dizziness, so be cautious while driving. Inform your doctor about all the medicines you are taking and about your health condition to rule out any unpleasant side-effects.
Drug Interactions
Drug-Drug Interactions: CEFTRIAXONE may interact with a diuretic (furosemide) and antibiotic (chloramphenicol).
Drug-Food Interactions: No interactions found/established.
Drug-Disease Interactions: Inform your doctor if you have colitis (inflammation in the lining of the colon), hyperbilirubinemia (excess bilirubin in the blood), gall bladder disease, pancreatitis, seizures, kidney or liver disease.
How does CEFTRIAXONE work?
CEFTRIAXONE works by preventing the formation of bacterial cell covering, which is necessary for their survival. Thereby, kills the bacteria and helps in treating and preventing the spread of infections.
Does CEFTRIAXONE cause dizziness?
CEFTRIAXONE may cause dizziness, so drive only if you are alert and omit driving and operating machinery if you experience dizziness.
Does CEFTRIAXONE cause diarrhoea?
Diarrhoea might be a side-effect of CEFTRIAXONE. Drink lots of fluids and eat non-spicy food if you experience diarrhoea. If you find blood in stools (tarry stools) or if you experience severe diarrhoea, consult your doctor. Do not take anti-diarrheal medicine on your own.
Does CEFTRIAXONE affect blood tests?
CEFTRIAXONE may affect the results of urine tests for sugar and blood test known as coomb’s test (antiglobulin test). Inform the person performing the tests that you are taking CEFTRIAXONE.

