celebrex
 
Generic name: celecoxib 
Drug class: Cox-2 inhibitors
Celebrex Capsule contains 'pain killers,' primarily used to reduce pain and swelling in muscles and joints. It treats painful conditions of osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis (pain and stiffness in the backbone), cervical spondylitis (wear and tear of spinal discs in neck), and menstrual pain. Arthritis is a condition that causes swelling of one or more joints resulting in pain and stiffness of joints that worsen over time.
Celebrex Capsule contains Celecoxib, which works by blocking cyclo-oxygenase (COX) enzyme, responsible for causing pain and inflammation in the body. Thereby, it helps relieve pain and swelling associated with different types of arthritis, spondylitis, low back pain, and menstrual pain.
Your doctor will advise you on how often you take this medicine based on your medical condition. In some cases, you may experience indigestion, stomach pain, diarrhoea, oedema, and flatulence. Most of these side effects of Celebrex Capsule do not require medical attention and gradually resolve over time. However, if the side effects persist or worsen, please consult your doctor. 
If you are known to be allergic to Celebrex Capsule or any other medicines, please tell your doctor. If you are pregnant or breastfeeding, please inform your doctor before taking Celebrex Capsule. Do not consume alcohol with Celebrex Capsule as it may increase the risk of stomach bleeding. Celebrex Capsule may cause an increased risk of severe heart problems like myocardial infarction and stroke, which can be fatal. It should not be used by a patient who has undergone recent heart bypass surgery or will have it. Celebrex Capsule increases the risk of severe gastrointestinal conditions like bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach or intestines, which can be fatal.

Uses of Celebrex Capsule 
Joint pain relief, Menstrual cramp.

Medicinal Benefits
Celebrex Capsule contains 'pain killers' primarily used to reduce pain and swelling in muscles and joints in conditions such as osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis (pain and stiffness in the backbone), cervical spondylitis (wear and tear of spinal discs in neck), menstrual pain. It contains Celecoxib, which works by blocking the action of cyclo-oxygenase (COX) enzyme in the body involved in producing certain chemical substances such as prostaglandins that cause pain and swelling. Thereby, it helps in relieving pain and swelling associated with different types of arthritis. 
Directions for Use
Swallow it as a whole with a glass of water. Do not crush, chew, or break it.
Storage
Store in a cool and dry place away from sunlight
Side Effects of Celebrex Capsule 
•	Indigestion
•	Stomach pain
•	Diarrhea
•	Edema
•	Flatulence
•	Constipation
•	Headache
The following severe side-effects may also occur when using Celebrex Capsule:
•	blood and lymphatic system disorders
Symptoms: decrease in the total amount of red blood cells, decrease in the number of white blood cells (leukopenia), low levels of thrombocytes, deficiency of red cells, white cells and platelets (pancytopenia)
•	metabolism and nutrition disorders
Symptoms: high level of potassium in the blood
•	nervous system disorders
Symptoms: dizziness, increased muscle tone (hypertonia), headache, lack of blood supply to the brain (cerebral infarction), loss of body movements, decrease taste sensitivity, bleeding occurs inside the skull (intracranial hemorrhage), inflammation of the linings of the brain (aseptic meningitis) disturbed nerve cell activity (epilepsy)
•	ear and labyrinth disorders
Symptoms: hearing loss (hypoacusis)
•	vascular disorders
Symptoms: sudden blockage in a lung artery (pulmonary embolism), inflammation of the blood vessels (vasculitis), high blood pressure a blood clot in a deep vein (deep vein thrombosis)
•	infections and infestations disorders
Symptoms: swelling of the tissue lining the sinuses (sinusitis), upper respiratory tract infection, inflammation of the pharynx (pharyngitis), urinary tract infection inflammation of the larynx (laryngitis)
•	immune system disorders
Symptoms: severe potentially life-threatening allergic reaction
•	psychiatric disorders
Symptoms: insomnia, anxiety, depression, confusional state hallucinations
•	eye disorders
Symptoms: inflammation of the conjunctiva (conjunctivitis), eye bleeding, blockage of the retinal artery blockage of a retinal vein
•	heart disorders
Symptoms: heart attack, heart failure, increased heartbeat, irregular heartbeat, unstable angina, leakage of the aortic valve each time the left ventricle relaxes (aortic valve incompetence), hardening of the arteries (coronary artery atherosclerosis), slow heartbeat (sinus bradycardia), thickening of the heart muscle (ventricular hypertrophy) heart rhythm disorder (ventricular fibrillation)
Mild Allergic Reactions
Following are the symptoms of mild allergic reactions to this medicine:
•	hair loss (alopecia)
•	sun allergy (photo-sensitivity)
•	swelling of the lower layer of the skin (angioedema)
Serious Allergic Reactions
Following are the symptoms of serious allergic reactions to this medicine:
•	drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS)
•	life-threatening allergic reaction
•	severe skin reaction
•	skin redness
Celebrex should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash, mucosal lesions, or any other sign of severe allergic reaction.
Warnings
Blood clot inside a blood vessel of the heart
With the long-term use of Celebrex, there is an increased risk of formation of a blood clot inside the blood vessel of the heart (severe heart related thrombotic events), heart attack and brain damage, which may be fatal. Patients should be advised for lowering the useful doses of Celebrex for the shortest duration with the intention of individual patient therapy.
Patients with high blood pressure
Patients taking thiazide or loop diuretics are at an increased risk to experience any damaging response when taking Celebrex. The use of Celebrex in such patients can lead to the development of high blood pressure or may worsen the existing high blood pressure both of which may increase the incidence of heart diseases. Proper care and monitoring of the blood pressure should be considered while initiating and undergoing the treatment with Celebrex in such patients.
Patients with heart failure and swelling of the various parts of the body
Patients taking Celebrex may see an increased risk of swelling and excess fluid build up inside the body (fluid retention). Take necessary precautions while using Celebrex in such patients.
Stomach and intestinal events
Use of Celebrex in patients may produce severe stomach and intestinal effects including bleeding, ulceration, and formation of holes all the way through the stomach, small intestine or large intestine, which can be fatal. Extreme care is recommended when Celebrex is taken by patients with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding.
Liver abnormalities
Patients taking Celebrex may have increased risk of severe liver reactions, including jaundice and liver function problems and liver damage with fatal outcome. Careful monitoring of the patients should be done for the occurrence of severe liver reactions while on the treatment with Celebrex.
Kidney disease
Use of Celebrex in patients with abnormal functioning of the kidney may lead to an increased risk of kidney damage. In such patients, taking NSAID's may cause a dose-dependent reduction in the formation of prostaglandins and, secondly, in kidney blood flow, which may precipitate the inability of kidneys to compensate for the overload of organ failure. Treatment with Celebrex should not be used in patients with advanced kidney disease. If therapy with Celebrex must be started, close monitoring of the functioning of kidneys of the patient is recommended.
Allergic reactions
Patients taking Celebrex are at increased risk of allergic reactions (swelling of the lower layer of the skin). Celebrex should not be given to patients with the symptoms of aspirin intolerance. This symptom complex typically occurs in patients who have inflammation of airways of lungs (asthma), with rhinitis with or without painless growth on the lining of the nose (nasal polyps), or who display severe and potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Emergency help should be given in cases where such allergic reactions occur.
Skin reactions
Patients using Celebrex may see an increased risk of serious skin side effects such as exfoliative dermatitis and Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) which can be fatal. These severe side-effects can occur without any warning and in patients without known previous allergy to sulfa drugs. Patients should be notified about the signs and symptoms of severe skin reactions, and use of the drug should be withdrawn during the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of allergic reaction.
Pregnant women
Patients who are in their late pregnancy, usually starting at 30 weeks gestation are at an increased risk when using this drug. The use of Celebrex should be avoided during pregnancy as it may cause premature closure of ductus arteriosus, which is a blood vessel that connects the major pulmonary artery to the descending aorta in an unborn child. Celebrex should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit outweighs the potential risk to the unborn baby.
Corticosteroids therapy
The use of Celebrex cannot be expected to be a substitute in order to treat corticosteroid insufficiency. On the other hand, an abrupt discontinuation of corticosteroids may result in exacerbation of corticosteroid-responsive illness. Patients on prolonged treatment with corticosteroids should have their therapy reduced slowly if a decision is made to discontinue corticosteroids.
Blood related disorders
Patients on long-term treatment with Celebrex may exhibit the signs or symptoms of insufficient production of red blood cells (anemia) or blood loss conditions.
Blood clot formation throughout the body (disseminated intravascular coagulation)
Patients with an age group of 16 or older are at an increased risk when using this medicine. Celebrex should only be used with caution in children with systemic onset of inflammation of the joints (rheumatoid arthritis) due to the risk of blood clot formation throughout the body (disseminated intravascular coagulation).
Existing condition of narrowing of the airways of lungs (asthma)
Patients with the existing condition of asthma who are undergoing treatment with Celebrex are at an increased risk when using this medicine. The use of aspirin in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma may lead to the severe condition of tightening of the muscles of the lungs (bronchospasm), which can be fatal. Celebrex should not be used in patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity.
Laboratory tests
Due to the severe risk of stomach and intestinal ulcerations and bleeding without any warning symptoms, the doctor should monitor for the signs and symptoms of stomach and intestinal bleeding. Patients who are on long-term treatment with NSAIDs should undergo complete blood count, and a chemistry profile checked regularly. If abnormal liver tests or kidney tests continue or worsens, the use of Celebrex should be discontinued.
Inherited disorder which is characterized by cancer of the large intestine and rectum (stomach and intestinal cancer in familial adenomatous polyposis)
Treatment with Celebrex has not been shown to diminish the risk of stomach and intestinal cancer or the need for a surgical procedure as a preventive measure or other related surgeries. Therefore, the care of such patients should not be changed because of the usage of Celebrex. In particular, the frequency of routine endoscopic examination should not be reduced, and surgery as a preventive measure or other related surgeries should not be delayed.
Interactions with Celebrex
When two or more medicines are taken together, it can change how the medicines work and increase the risk of side-effects. In medical terms, this is called as a Drug Interaction.
Celebrex Capsule interacts with lithium, which is used for the treatment of depressive disorders. The use of Celebrex along with lithium has shown to increase the levels of lithium in blood in patients who were receiving lithium at a dose of 450 mg twice a day with Celebrex 200 mg twice a day in comparison to subjects receiving lithium alone. Patients who are on treatment with lithium should be monitored closely when the treatment with Celebrex is initiated or withdrawn.
There may be an interaction of Celebrex with warfarin, which is used as an anticoagulant to prevent clotting of blood. Post-marketing reports have revealed severe bleeding events, some of which were fatal, particularly in the elderly, in association with an increase in the time taken by blood to clot (prothrombin time) in patients taking Celebrex in combination with warfarin. The monitoring of anticoagulant activity should be done, particularly during the first few days, after beginning or changing Celebrex therapy in patients who are on treatment with warfarin or similar agents, since these patients are at an enhanced risk of bleeding problems.
Celebrex Capsule may interact with CYP2C9 inhibitors, which are the drugs that block the enzyme CYP2C9. Celebrex is metabolized predominantly by cytochrome CYP2C9 in the liver. Significant interactions may occur when Celebrex is given in combination with drugs that prevent CYP2C9 enzyme. The use of Celebrex and drugs that are known to block the working of enzyme CYP2C9 should be done with caution.

What precautions should be taken during Pregnancy and Nursing, and administering Celebrex to Children or the Older Adults?
Pregnant Women
Contraindication
Warning: Celebrex should not be used during pregnancy as it may cause fetal kidney dysfunction.
Breastfeeding
Contraindication
Warning: Low level of medicine may pass into breast milk.
Younger Adults Population
Possibly safe
Warning: The use of Celebrex is recommended in patients 2 years and older. The effectiveness and safety data of Celebrex for inflammation of joint and stiffness in a child beyond six months (juvenile rheumatoid arthritis) have not been studied.
Older Adults Population
Management or monitoring precaution
Warning: There is no difference in effectiveness observed among younger and elderly individuals. Elderly patients are at increased risk for kidney damage.
Interactions of Celebrex by Severity
Serious
The following medicines may interact when taken together and can cause harmful effects in the body. Please consult with your doctor or pharmacist before taking these medicines together.
•	Warfarin
•	Aspirin
•	Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs
Moderate
The following medicines may interact when taken together and can increase your risk of harmful effects. Please consult with your doctor or pharmacist before taking these medicines together.
•	cyp2c9-inhibitors
•	Lithium
•	Angiotensin 2 Receptor Blocker
•	Angiotensin Converting Enzyme Inhibitor
•	Furosemide
•	cyp2d6-inhibitors
When should Celebrex be not used?
Severe allergic reactions
The use of Celebrex is not recommended for use in patients with known allergic reactions to Celebrex, aspirin, sulfonamides, or other NSAIDs.
Patients who have experienced asthma and other allergic reactions
The patients who have experienced breathing problems (asthma), hives, irritation and swelling in nose (acute rhinitis), painless and noncancerous growth on the lining of nasal passages (nasal polyps), genetic form of swelling due to fluid accumulation, or allergic reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs are recommended not to take Celebrex. Severe allergic reactions, some of which are fatal reported occurring in patients using NSAIDs. These patients may have the following symptoms if they use this medicine:
•	life-threatening allergic reaction
•	swelling due to fluid accumulation
Patients undergone heart related surgical procedure
Celebrex should not be given for the treatment of pain during the peri-operative procedure, i.e. before, during and after the heart bypass surgery.
Patients with stomach and intestinal problems
The use of Celebrex is not recommended in patients with stomach ulcers or bleeding in the stomach and intestinal area.
Women at their pregnancy state
Women who are pregnant and women of childbearing potential should not use Celebrex unless they are using an effective method of contraception. The potential for human risk in pregnancy is not known, but it cannot be ignored.
Women while breastfeeding their infants
It has been shown that when Celebrex is given to a lactating woman, there was a very low transfer of Celebrex into the breast milk. Women who take Celebrex should be recommended not to breastfeed.
Liver abnormalities
The use of Celebrex is not recommended for patients who have liver disorders.
Kidney problems
Celebrex should not be used in patients with estimated creatinine clearance value (kidney parameter) less than 30 ml/min.
Inflammation of the digestive tract (inflammatory bowel disease)
Patients with a risk of inflammatory bowel disease should avoid the use of Celebrex.
Heart failure
The patients with heart abnormalities including heart failure should not use Celebrex.

