Overview
Daflon 500 Tablet is used for Hemorrhoids, Varicose veins, Thrombogenesis, Deep vein thrombosis, Venous ulcers, Coronary heart disease, Neoplasm, Inflammation, Stasis dermatitis, Chronic venous insufficiency and other conditions. Daflon 500 Tablet may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Daflon 500 Tablet contains Diosmin and Flavonoids as active ingredients.
Daflon 500 Tablet works by increasing smooth muscle contractility to manage venous tone, increasing lymphatic contractility to decrease edema, and managing the oxidative and inflammatory factors induced by venous hypertension; lowering the adhesion of inflammatory cells to the endothelium; suppressing the metabolism of arachidonic acid; retarding the carcinogenesis process; possessing the antioxidant activity;
Detailed information related to Daflon 500 Tablet's uses, composition, dosage, side effects and reviews is listed below.
Uses
Daflon 500 Tablet is used for the treatment, control, prevention, & improvement of the following diseases, conditions and symptoms:
Hemorrhoids
Varicose veins
Thrombogenesis
Deep vein thrombosis
Venous ulcers
Coronary heart disease
Neoplasm
Inflammation
Stasis dermatitis
Chronic venous insufficiency
Daflon 500 Tablet may also be used for purposes not listed here.
Side-effects
The following is a list of possible side-effects that may occur from all constituting ingredients of Daflon 500 Tablet. This is not a comprehensive list. These side-effects are possible, but do not always occur. Some of the side-effects may be rare but serious. Consult your doctor if you observe any of the following side-effects, especially if they do not go away.
Headache
Digestive system disorders
Swelling in the limbs
Gastric disturbance
Bad digestion
Phlebitis
Rash
Gastrointestinal disturbances
Cramps in lower limb
Venous thrombosis
Dyspepsia
Stomach upset
Swelling of the extremities
Daflon 500 Tablet may also cause side-effects not listed here.
Precautions
Before using Daflon 500 Tablet, inform your doctor about your current list of medications, over the counter products (e.g. vitamins, herbal supplements, etc.), allergies, pre-existing diseases, and current health conditions (e.g. pregnancy, upcoming surgery, etc.). Some health conditions may make you more susceptible to the side-effects of the drug. Take as directed by your doctor or follow the direction printed on the product insert. Dosage is based on your condition. Tell your doctor if your condition persists or worsens. Important counseling points are listed below.
History of cancer
This drug should be taken as directed by a doctor
When not to use Daflon 500 Tablet
Hypersensitivity to Daflon 500 Tablet is a contraindication. In addition, Daflon 500 Tablet should not be used if you have the following conditions:
Hypersensitivity to this drug
Composition and Active Ingredients
Daflon 500 Tablet is composed of the following active ingredients (salts)
Diosmin - 90%
Flavonoids - 10%
Please note that this medicine may be available in various strengths for each active ingredient listed above.
Packages and Strengths
Please consult your physician or pharmacist or product package for this information.
Frequently asked Questions
Is Daflon 500 Tablet safe to use when pregnant?
Diosmin: Please consult with your doctor for case-specific recommendations.
Flavonoids: Please consult with your doctor for case-specific recommendations.
Is Daflon 500 Tablet safe while breastfeeding?
Diosmin: Please discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
Flavonoids: Please discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
Can Daflon 500 Tablet be used for hemorrhoids and varicose veins?
Yes, hemorrhoids and varicose veins are among the most common reported uses for Daflon 500 Tablet. Please do not use Daflon 500 Tablet for hemorrhoids and varicose veins without consulting first with your doctor. Click here and view survey results to find out what other patients report as common uses for Daflon 500 Tablet.
How long do I need to use Daflon 500 Tablet before I see improvement of my conditions?
TabletWise.com website users have reported 2 days and 1 week as the most common time it takes before they saw improvements in their conditions. These times may not be reflective of what you may experience or how you should use this medicine. Please consult with your doctor to check how long do you need to use Daflon 500 Tablet. Click here and view survey results to find out what other patients report as time for effectiveness for Daflon 500 Tablet.
At what frequency do I need to use Daflon 500 Tablet?
TabletWise.com website users have reported twice a day and thrice a day as the most common frequency of using Daflon 500 Tablet. Please follow your doctor's advice on how often you need to Daflon 500 Tablet. Click here and view survey results to find out what other patients report as frequency of using Daflon 500 Tablet.
Should I use Daflon 500 Tablet empty stomach, before food or after food?
TabletWise.com website users have most commonly reported using Daflon 500 Tablet after food. However, this may not be reflective of how you should use this medicine. Please follow your doctor's advice on how you should use this medicine. Click here and view survey results to find out what other patients report as timing of using Daflon 500 Tablet.
Is it safe to drive or operate heavy machinery when using this product?
If you experience drowsiness, dizziness, hypotension or a headache as side-effects when using Daflon 500 Tablet medicine then it may not be safe to drive a vehicle or operate heavy machinery. One should not drive a vehicle if using the medicine makes you drowsy, dizzy or lowers your blood-pressure extensively. Pharmacists also advise patients not to drink alcohol with medicines as alcohol intensifies drowsiness side-effects. Please check for these effects on your body when using Daflon 500 Tablet. Always consult with your doctor for recommendations specific to your body and health conditions.
Is this medicine or product addictive or habit forming?
Most medicines don't come with a potential for addiction or abuse. Usually, the government's categorizes medicines that can be addictive as controlled substances. Examples include schedule H or X in India and schedule II-V in the US. Please consult the product package to make sure that the medicine does not belong to such special categorizations of medicines. Lastly, do not self-medicate and increase your body's dependence to medicines without the advice of a doctor.
Can i stop using this product immediately or do I have to slowly wean off the use?
Some medicines need to be tapered or cannot be stopped immediately because of rebound effects. Please consult with your doctor for recommendations specific to your body, health and other medications that you may be using.
Other important Information on Daflon 500 Tablet
Missing a dose
In case you miss a dose, use it as soon as you notice. If it is close to the time of your next dose, skip the missed dose and resume your dosing schedule. Do not use extra dose to make up for a missed dose. If you are regularly missing doses, consider setting an alarm or asking a family member to remind you. Please consult your doctor to discuss changes in your dosing schedule or a new schedule to make up for missed doses, if you have missed too many doses recently.
Overdosage of Daflon 500 Tablet
Do not use more than prescribed dose. Taking more medication will not improve your symptoms; rather they may cause poisoning or serious side-effects. If you suspect that you or anyone else who may have overdosed of Daflon 500 Tablet, please go to the emergency department of the closest hospital or nursing home. Bring a medicine box, container, or label with you to help doctors with necessary information.
Do not give your medicines to other people even if you know that they have the same condition or it seems that they may have similar conditions. This may lead to overdosage.
Please consult your physician or pharmacist or product package for more information.
Storage of Daflon 500 Tablet
Store medicines at room temperature, away from heat and direct light. Do not freeze medicines unless required by package insert. Keep medicines away from children and pets.
Do not flush medications down the toilet or pour them into drainage unless instructed to do so. Medication discarded in this manner may contaminate the environment. Please consult your pharmacist or doctor for more details on how to safely discard Daflon 500 Tablet.
Expired Daflon 500 Tablet
Taking a single dose of expired Daflon 500 Tablet is unlikely to produce an adverse event. However, please discuss with your primary health provider or pharmacist for proper advice or if you feel unwell or sick. Expired drug may become ineffective in treating your prescribed conditions. To be on the safe side, it is important not to use expired drugs. If you have a chronic illness that requires taking medicine constantly such as heart condition, seizures, and life-threatening allergies, you are much safer keeping in touch with your primary health care provider so that you can have a fresh supply of unexpired medications.