Fucidin

Detailed Name: Fucidin 20mg/g Cream

Description: Fucidin Cream is applied on the skin to treat infections caused by certain bacteria. It works for various skin issues like impetigo, folliculitis, and infected rashes. It can be used alone or with oral treatments. Be careful near the eyes and flames, and avoid prolonged use to prevent resistance.

Active Ingredients: fusidic acid Ph.Eur. 20 mg/g., It is a type of antibiotic. 

Other known Ingredients: Butylhydroxyanisole (E320), Cetyl alcohol, Potassium sorbate

What does the cream look like? 
A white to off-white cream.

Why is it used for?
Fucidin 20 mg/g cream is a treatment used on the skin. It can be used by itself or along with other treatments taken by mouth. It's used for infections on the skin that are caused by certain types of bacteria like Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus spp, and Corynebacterium minutissimum.
This cream is used to treat both main infections and infections that happen because of other skin conditions. Some examples of main infections that can be treated with this cream are impetigo (a contagious skin infection), superficial folliculitis (hair follicle infection), sycosis barbae (beard area infection), paronychia (nail area infection), and erythrasma (skin rash infection). It can also be used for infections that develop on top of existing skin problems like infected eczema, infected rashes caused by contact with something irritating, and infected cuts or scrapes.

How does it work?
Fucidin cream works by killing germs (bacteria) that cause infections. 

Used by:
Adults and Paediatric population

How to apply?
Applied on the skin:
* Uncovered lesions - apply gently three or four times daily.
* Covered lesions - less frequent applications may be adequate.
Special Warnings and precautions for use:
Using Fucidin cream on your skin for a long time or frequently might make bacteria resistant to it. This is similar to how bacteria can become resistant to other antibiotics.
Using the cream a lot or often could also raise the chance of your skin becoming sensitive to it, causing reactions.
Fucidin cream has some extra ingredients like butylhydroxyanisole, cetyl alcohol, and potassium sorbate. These could cause skin reactions like rashes when applied. Butylhydroxyanisole might also irritate your eyes and mucous membranes. So, be careful when applying the cream near your eyes.
Remember, don't smoke or get close to fire while using this cream. It could lead to serious burns. Also, be cautious because fabric (like clothes, bedding, and bandages) that touches the cream can catch fire more easily. Washing them might help a bit, but not completely.
In short, using Fucidin cream too much might make it less effective against bacteria. It could also make your skin sensitive to it. The cream has some extra ingredients that could cause skin reactions, and you should be careful not to get it near your eyes. And don't go near flames or smoke while using it, because things that touch the cream can catch fire more easily.
Do not use Fucidin cream, if you are allergic to fusidic acid or any of the other ingredients of this medicine

Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction:
No interaction studies have been performed. Interactions with systemically administered medicinal products are considered minimal as the systemic absorption of topical Fucidin is negligible.

Fertility, pregnancy and lactation(Breastfeeding):
Pregnancy
No effects during pregnancy are anticipated, since systemic exposure to topically-applied fusidic acid/sodium fusidate is negligible. Topical Fucidin can be used during pregnancy.
Breast-feeding
No effects on the breast-fed new-born/infant are anticipated since the systemic exposure of topically-applied fusidic acid/sodium fusidate to the breast-feeding woman is negligible. Topical Fucidin can be used during breast-feeding but it is recommended to avoid applying topical Fucidin on the breast.
Fertility
There are no clinical studies with topical Fucidin regarding fertility. No effects in women of childbearing potential are anticipated, since systemic exposure following topically-applied fusidic acid/sodium fusidate is negligible.
Effects on ability to drive and use machines:
Using Fucidin cream on your skin is unlikely to affect your ability to drive or operate machines.

Undesirable Effects:
The estimation of the frequency of undesirable effects is based on a pooled analysis of data from clinical trials and from spontaneous reporting.
Based on pooled data from clinical studies including 4724 patients who received Fucidin cream or Fucidin ointment, the frequency of undesirable effects is 2.3%.
The most frequently reported adverse reactions during treatment are various skin reactions such as pruritus and rash, followed by application site conditions such as pain and irritation, which all occurred in less than 1% of patients.
Hypersensitivity and angioedema have been reported.
Undesirable effects are listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC) and the individual undesirable effects are listed, starting with the most frequently reported. Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness.

Missed a Dose:
If you forget to use this medicine, use it as soon as you remember. Then use this medicine at the usual time.

Overdose:
Overdose is unlikely to occur. Unless hypersensitivity to Fusidic acid or any of the excipients exists, accidental ingestion of Fucidin cream is unlikely to cause any harm. The total quantity of fusidic acid (30 g Fucidin cream contains 600 mg fusidic acid) will usually not exceed the approved total daily oral dose of fusidic acid containing products except in children aged less than 1 year and weighing ≤ 10 kg. Although in this instance a child of this particular age group is unlikely to ingest a whole tube of Fucidin cream. The concentration of the excipients is too low to constitute a safety risk.

How much Fucidin cream to use?
Your doctor will tell you how much Fucidin cream to use. Usually, you should use this medicine three or four times each day.
* If you have been told to cover the skin with any dressings or bandages you may not need to use the medicine so often. A nappy on a baby may act as a dressing. Follow the advice of your doctor.
* If you accidentally apply too much cream or a small quantity of the cream is accidentally swallowed, it is unlikely to cause any harm. If a larger quantity of the cream is accidentally swallowed or you are worried, contact your doctor, pharmacist or A&E department for advice.

Side Effects:
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Important side effects to look out for:
1. Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
You must get urgent medical help if you have any of the following symptoms. You may be having an allergic reaction:
* You have difficulty breathing
* Your face or throat swell
* Your skin develops a severe rash.
2. Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
* Irritation at site of application (including pain, burning, irritation, stinging and skin redness)
* Itching
* Rash
* Eczema.
3. Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
* Conjunctivitis
* Hives
* Skin swelling
* Blistering of the skin.

Pharmacodynamic Properties:
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Other antibiotics for topical use, ATC code: D06AX01
Fusidic acid is a potent antibacterial agent. Fusidic acid and its salts show fat and water solubility and strong surface activity and exhibit unusual ability to penetrate intact skin. Concentrations of 0.03 - 0.12 mcg fusidic acid per ml inhibit nearly all strains of Staphylococcus aureus. Topical application of fusidic acid is also effective against streptococci, corynebacteria, neisseria and certain clostridia.

Pharmacokinetic Properties:
In vitro studies show that fusidic acid can penetrate intact human skin. The degree of penetration depends on factors such as the duration of exposure to fusidic acid and the condition of the skin. Fusidic acid is excreted mainly in the bile with little excreted in the urine.

List of Excipients:
Butylhydroxyanisole (E320)
Cetanol
Glycerol
Liquid paraffin
Potassium sorbate
Polysorbate 60
White soft paraffin
All-rac-α-tocopherol
Hydrochloric acid
Purified water.

Shelf Life: 3 years

Storage: 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.

Disposal:
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.