Lactulose
About:
Lactulose Syrup is used for Chronic or habitual constipation, Abnormal brain function due to liver failure and other conditions. Lactulose Syrup may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Lactulose Syrup contains Lactulose as an active ingredient.
Lactulose Syrup works by increasing the pressure in the colon.
Lactulose side effects
Get emergency medical help if you have signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficult breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
Stop using lactulose and call your doctor at once if you have severe or ongoing diarrhea.
Common side effects of lactulose may include:
•	bloating, gas;
•	Diarrhoea
•	Nausea or vomiting
•	Stomach pain and cramps
•	Belching
•	Flatulence
•	Low potassium and magnesiu
Uses of Lactulose
What is it prescribed for?
•	Constipation
Constipation occurs when your bowel movements become less frequent making it difficult to pass stools. Lactulose is used to treat constipation by increasing the water content in your stool, thus making it easier to pass.
•	Hepatic encephalopathy
Hepatic encephalopathy is a type of brain damage caused due to the inability of the liver to remove toxins from the blood. These toxins can travel to your brain and affect brain function leading to confusion, involuntary movements of your hands or arms, disorientation and slurred speech. Lactulose helps in removing the toxins from your blood to prevent the toxic effects of liver failure on your brain.
Concerns
Commonly asked questions
•	Onset of action
The effect of Lactulose can be observed in 8 hours of taking it.
•	Duration of effect
The duration of time for which Lactulose remains effective in your body is 2 days.
•	Safe with alcohol?
Interaction with alcohol is unknown. It is advisable to consult your doctor before consumption.
•	Is it habit forming?
No habit-forming tendencies were reported for Lactulose.
•	Usage in pregnancy?
Lactulose is not recommended if you are pregnant as enough data is not available to understand its safety and efficiency. Consult your doctor before taking this medicine.
•	Usage while breast-feeding?
Lactulose is not recommended to be taken while breastfeeding as it is not known if this medicine is present in breast milk or not. Discuss all the risks and benefits with your doctor before taking this medicine. Your doctor may advise you to discontinue breastfeeding or to discontinue the medicine based on your clinical condition.
When not to use?
Galactosemia
Galactosemia is a rare, hereditary disorder of carbohydrate metabolism that affects your body's ability to convert galactose (a sugar contained in milk) to glucose (a different type of sugar). Lactulose is not recommended if you have this genetic condition as it may worsen your condition. 
Allergy
Lactulose is not recommended for use if you are allergic to it. Seek immediate medical attention if you notice any symptoms such as skin rash, swelling and/or itching (especially of your face, lips, throat), breathing difficulty, etc.
Irritable bowel syndrome
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a common disorder that affects the large intestine. Signs and symptoms include cramping, stomach pain, bloating, gas, and diarrhoea or constipation, or both. Lactulose is not recommended for use if you have inflammatory bowel disease as you may experience colonic perforation (holes in your colon).
Intestinal obstruction disorders
It is a condition of your digestive system in which digested material is prevented from passing normally through the bowel. Lactulose is not recommended for use if you have intestinal obstruction disorders as it may further reduce the movement of digestive material, therefore worsening your condition.
Warnings
Warnings for special population
Pregnancy
Lactulose is not recommended if you are pregnant as enough data is not available to understand its safety and efficiency. Consult your doctor before taking this medicine.
Breast-feeding
Lactulose is not recommended to be taken while breastfeeding as it is not known if this medicine is present in breast milk or not. Discuss all the risks and benefits with your doctor before taking this medicine. Your doctor may advise you to discontinue breastfeeding or to discontinue the medicine based on your clinical condition.
General warnings
Low galactose diet
Lactulose should be used cautiously if you require a low galactose (a type of sugar) diet. This medicine can change your blood sugar levels which can affect your dietary requirement.
Electrolyte imbalance
Lactulose can cause an imbalance of potassium, magnesium, and other electrolytes levels in your body. Therefore it should be used with caution if you have any electrolyte imbalances.
Other laxatives
Lactulose is not recommended for use along with other laxatives especially when treating the symptoms of liver failure. 
Antibiotics and antifungals
Lactulose should be used with caution if you are taking any antibiotics or antifungal medicines as it may reduce the efficacy of this medicine.
Dosage
Missed Dose
Take the missed dose of Lactulose as soon as you remember. If it is almost time for the next scheduled dose then the missed dose can be skipped.
Overdose
Contact your doctor if an overdose with Lactulose is suspected. 
Interactions
All drugs interact differently for person to person. You should check all the possible interactions with your doctor before starting any medicine.
Interaction with Alcohol
Description
Interaction with alcohol is unknown. It is advisable to consult your doctor before consumption.
Instructions
Interaction with alcohol is unknown. It is advisable to consult your doctor before consumption.
Interaction with Medicine
Ketoconazole
Azithromycin
Aluminium Hydroxide
Dexamethasone
Senna
Disease interactions
Diabetes
Lactulose should be used with caution if you have diabetes, as it may change your blood sugar levels. Appropriate dose adjustment and frequent checking of the blood glucose levels is recommended while taking this medicine.


•	Is this medicine or product addictive or habit forming?
Most medicines don't come with a potential for addiction or abuse. Usually, the government's categorizes medicines that can be addictive as controlled substances. Examples include schedule H or X in India and schedule II-V in the US. Please consult the product package to make sure that the medicine does not belong to such special categorizations of medicines. Lastly, do not self-medicate and increase your body's dependence to medicines without the advice of a doctor.
•	Can i stop using this product immediately or do I have to slowly wean off the use?
Some medicines need to be tapered or cannot be stopped immediately because of rebound effects. Please consult with your doctor for recommendations specific to your body, health and other medications that you may be using.
Other important Information on Lactulose Syrup
Missing a dose
In case you miss a dose, use it as soon as you notice. If it is close to the time of your next dose, skip the missed dose and resume your dosing schedule. Do not use extra dose to make up for a missed dose. If you are regularly missing doses, consider setting an alarm or asking a family member to remind you. Please consult your doctor to discuss changes in your dosing schedule or a new schedule to make up for missed doses, if you have missed too many doses recently.
Overdosage of Lactulose Syrup
•	Do not use more than prescribed dose. Taking more medication will not improve your symptoms; rather they may cause poisoning or serious side-effects. If you suspect that you or anyone else who may have overdosed of Lactulose Syrup, please go to the emergency department of the closest hospital or nursing home. Bring a medicine box, container, or label with you to help doctors with necessary information.
•	Do not give your medicines to other people even if you know that they have the same condition or it seems that they may have similar conditions. This may lead to overdosage.
•	Please consult your physician or pharmacist or product package for more information.
Storage of Lactulose Syrup
•	Store medicines at room temperature, away from heat and direct light. Do not freeze medicines unless required by package insert. Keep medicines away from children and pets.
•	Do not flush medications down the toilet or pour them into drainage unless instructed to do so. Medication discarded in this manner may contaminate the environment. Please consult your pharmacist or doctor for more details on how to safely discard Lactulose Syrup.

