Overview
Lamifen Cream is used for Fungal infections and other conditions. Lamifen Cream may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Lamifen Cream contains Terbinafine as an active ingredient.
Lamifen Cream works by stopping the growth of fungi.
Detailed information related to Lamifen Cream's uses, composition, dosage, side effects and reviews is listed below.
Uses
Lamifen Cream is used for the treatment, control, prevention, & improvement of the following diseases, conditions and symptoms:
Fungal infections
Lamifen Cream may also be used for purposes not listed here.
Side-effects
The following is a list of possible side-effects that may occur from all constituting ingredients of Lamifen Cream. This is not a comprehensive list. These side-effects are possible, but do not always occur. Some of the side-effects may be rare but serious. Consult your doctor if you observe any of the following side-effects, especially if they do not go away.
Red skin
Indigestion
Rash
Itchy skin
Loss of appetite
Feeling of fullness
Burning
Irritation
Pain
Stiffness in muscles
Abdominal pain
Bone or joint pain
Skin reactions
Urge to vomit
Loose motions
Itching
Swelling
Enlargement of belly
Precautions
Before using Lamifen Cream, inform your doctor about your current list of medications, over the counter products (e.g. vitamins, herbal supplements, etc.), allergies, pre-existing diseases, and current health conditions (e.g. pregnancy, upcoming surgery, etc.). Some health conditions may make you more susceptible to the side-effects of the drug. Take as directed by your doctor or follow the direction printed on the product insert. Dosage is based on your condition. Tell your doctor if your condition persists or worsens. Important counseling points are listed below.
Avoid contact with the eyes
Liver function tests are advisable during treatment
do not take by mouth. Consult with your doctor before using this medicine on open wounds, dry, chapped, irritated, or sun-burned skin.
wash your hands before and after applying Lamifen Cream. Clean and dry the skin area to be treated.
do not wash the treated area after immediately applying Lamifen Cream. Also avoid the use of other products on the treated area unless directed by your doctor.
applying an excessive amount may result in pilling. Use a thinner layer or lesser quantity of medicine to avoid pilling.
avoid getting this medication in your eyes or nose or mouth.
Interactions with Lamifen Cream
If you use other drugs or over the counter products at the same time, the effects of Lamifen Cream may change. This may increase your risk for side-effects or cause your drug not to work properly. Tell your doctor about all the drugs, vitamins, and herbal supplements you are using, so that you doctor can help you prevent or manage drug interactions. Lamifen Cream may interact with the following drugs and products:
Amiodarone
Cimetidine
Desipramine
Fluconazole
Ketoconazole
Rifampin
When not to use Lamifen Cream
Hypersensitivity to Lamifen Cream is a contraindication. In addition, Lamifen Cream should not be used if you have the following conditions:
Alcohol
Blood related problems
Breastfeeding
Depression
Elderly
Hypersensitivity
Kidney problems
Liver disease
Lupus erythematosus
Pregnant
Composition and Active Ingredients
Lamifen Cream is composed of the following active ingredients (salts)
Terbinafine
Please note that this medicine may be available in various strengths for each active ingredient listed above.
Packages and Strengths
Lamifen Cream is available in the following packages and strengths
Lamifen Cream - Packages: Topical 1% 15g in Bottle x 1 (Shelf life: 24 months/Store below 25C)
Lamifen Cream - Strengths: 1%
Frequently asked Questions
Is Lamifen Cream safe to use when pregnant?
No
Is Lamifen Cream safe while breastfeeding?
No
Is it safe to drive or operate heavy machinery when using this product?
If you experience drowsiness, dizziness, hypotension or a headache as side-effects when using Lamifen Cream medicine then it may not be safe to drive a vehicle or operate heavy machinery. One should not drive a vehicle if using the medicine makes you drowsy, dizzy or lowers your blood-pressure extensively. Pharmacists also advise patients not to drink alcohol with medicines as alcohol intensifies drowsiness side-effects. Please check for these effects on your body when using Lamifen Cream. Always consult with your doctor for recommendations specific to your body and health conditions.
Is this medicine or product addictive or habit forming?
Most medicines don't come with a potential for addiction or abuse. Usually, the government's categorizes medicines that can be addictive as controlled substances. Examples include schedule H or X in India and schedule II-V in the US. Please consult the product package to make sure that the medicine does not belong to such special categorizations of medicines. Lastly, do not self-medicate and increase your body's dependence to medicines without the advice of a doctor.
Can i stop using this product immediately or do I have to slowly wean off the use?
Some medicines need to be tapered or cannot be stopped immediately because of rebound effects. Please consult with your doctor for recommendations specific to your body, health and other medications that you may be using.
Other important Information on Lamifen Cream
Missing a dose
In case you miss a dose, use it as soon as you notice. If it is close to the time of your next dose, skip the missed dose and resume your dosing schedule. Do not use extra dose to make up for a missed dose. If you are regularly missing doses, consider setting an alarm or asking a family member to remind you. Please consult your doctor to discuss changes in your dosing schedule or a new schedule to make up for missed doses, if you have missed too many doses recently.
Overdosage of Lamifen Cream
Do not use more than prescribed dose. Taking more medication will not improve your symptoms; rather they may cause poisoning or serious side-effects. If you suspect that you or anyone else who may have overdosed of Lamifen Cream, please go to the emergency department of the closest hospital or nursing home. Bring a medicine box, container, or label with you to help doctors with necessary information.
Do not give your medicines to other people even if you know that they have the same condition or it seems that they may have similar conditions. This may lead to overdosage.
Please consult your physician or pharmacist or product package for more information.
Storage of Lamifen Cream
Store medicines at room temperature, away from heat and direct light. Do not freeze medicines unless required by package insert. Keep medicines away from children and pets.
Do not flush medications down the toilet or pour them into drainage unless instructed to do so. Medication discarded in this manner may contaminate the environment. Please consult your pharmacist or doctor for more details on how to safely discard Lamifen Cream.
Expired Lamifen Cream
Taking a single dose of expired Lamifen Cream is unlikely to produce an adverse event. However, please discuss with your primary health provider or pharmacist for proper advice or if you feel unwell or sick. Expired drug may become ineffective in treating your prescribed conditions. To be on the safe side, it is important not to use expired drugs. If you have a chronic illness that requires taking medicine constantly such as heart condition, seizures, and life-threatening allergies, you are much safer keeping in touch with your primary health care provider so that you can have a fresh supply of unexpired medications.
