Why it's used
Megamox Tablet is a prescription medicine that is used to treat certain infections such as urinary tract infections which include inflammation of the kidney (pyelonephritis), and infection of the wall of the urinary bladder (cystitis), skin and skin structure infections such as serious bacterial skin infection (cellulitis), lower respiratory tract infections which include inflammation of the airways (bronchitis) or infection in the lungs (pneumonia). This medicine is also used to treat acute bacterial inflammation within the nasal passage (acute bacterial sinusitis), acute middle ear infection, gum swelling, and infection from animal bites. This medicine works by killing the growth of bacteria that cause infection.
When not to use
Megamox Tablet will not work against colds, flu, or other viral infections.
Penicillin-class Antibacterial
Megamox belongs to the Penicillin-class Antibacterial class of medicines. Penicillin are a group of antibiotics that are used to treat and prevent different type of bacterial infections.
How to use
Read the medicine guide provided by your pharmacist, your doctor, or the medicine company. If you have any questions related to Megamox, ask your doctor or pharmacist. Use Megamox Tablet as per the instructions provided by your doctor.
Megamox is consumed with or without food. Megamox should be taken with food to minimize the digestion difficulties of medicine. Megamox may be taken every 8 hours or 12 hours, according to the prescribed dose and as directed. Do not take two doses in 1 hour.
The typical dose of Megamox for adults is 500 mg every 12 hours or 250 mg every 8 hours. The usual dose for children is 45 mg/kg (20.4 mg/lb)/day every 12 hours or 40 mg/kg (18.1 mg/lb)/day every 8 hours (patients aged 12 weeks and older) and 30 mg/kg (13.6 mg/lb)/day divided every 12 hours (neonates and infants aged less than 12 weeks). Megamox is commonly used at the same time every day. This medicine is not known to be addictive or habit-forming.
This medicine should be used on an as-needed basis. Megamox should not be used more than 14 days without review. Megamox should be used as directed by the doctor even if you feel well, or even if you think that there is no need for you to use your medicine.
Discuss with your doctor if your condition persists or worsens or if you develop new symptoms. Discuss with your doctor if skin rash, severe watery or bloody diarrhea, fever, difficulty in breathing, inflammation of the large intestine, stomach pain, fever, swollen glands in the neck, armpit or groin, swelling of the face or throat, inflammation of blood vessels, and collapse. If you have any kidney disease, the removal of amoxicillin may be delayed as the functioning of the kidney is not completely developed in neonates and young infants. Therefore, dose selection should be modified in these patients. Take necessary precautions while selecting a dose in elderly patients due to increased risk of side-effects.
Symptoms of an overdose of Megamox
If you use too much of this medicine, it could lead to dangerous levels of the medicine in your body. In such cases, symptoms of an overdose may include:
cloudiness due to crystals in the urine (crystalluria)
cramps
decreased functioning of the kidney
decreased output of urine
diarrhea
inflammation of the kidney (interstitial nephritis)
nausea
vomiting
What precautions should be taken during Pregnancy and Nursing, and administering Megamox to Children or the Older Adults?
Pregnant Women
Only When Necessary
Warning: Sufficient and well-controlled studies are not conducted in pregnant women. Megamox should be used during pregnancy only after considering the importance of medicine to the mother.
Breastfeeding
Precaution
Warning: Megamox may pass into breast milk and can cause diarrhea and fungal infection in the breast-fed infant so Megamox should only be used with precaution or after assessment of risks and benefits of the drug during breastfeeding by the doctor.
Younger Adults Population
Management or monitoring precaution
Warning: Adjustment of the dose is required in children aged less than 3 months.
Older Adults Population
Management or monitoring precaution
Warning: As elderly patients are more likely to have decreased functioning of the kidney, proper care should be taken while selecting an appropriate dose in these conditions.
Megamox Side-effects
The following side-effects may commonly occur when using Megamox Tablet. If any of these side-effects worsen or last for a long time, you should consult with your doctor:
diarrhea
hives
immune disorder of T cells (mucocutaneous candidosis)
inflammation of the vagina
nausea
skin rashes
vomiting
The following side-effects may commonly occur in older patients on the use of Megamox Tablet. Discuss with your doctor if any of these side-effects last for a long time or are severe:
decrease in flow of bile from liver (cholestatic jaundice)
increased liver enzymes (aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase)
inflammation of the liver (hepatitis)
The following side-effects may commonly occur in children when using Megamox Tablet. Discuss with your doctor if any of these side-effects last for a long time or are severe:
diaper area rashes
diarrhea
hives
skin rashes
tooth discoloration
Rarely, the use of Megamox Tablet may cause the following side-effects:
behavioral changes
black hairy tongue
cloudiness due to crystals in the urine (crystalluria)
dizziness
gas formation (flatulence)
headache
increase in the number of eosinophils (eosinophilia)
indigestion
inflammation of the kidney (interstitial nephritis)
inflammation of the tongue (glossitis)
insomnia
overgrowth of non-susceptible organisms
reversible hyperactivity
severe itching of the skin
stomach discomfort
tooth discoloration
The following severe side-effects may also occur when using Megamox Tablet:
blood disorder
Symptoms: deficiency of red blood cells (hemolytic anemia), low levels of thrombocytes, low levels of the blood cells, low levels of leukocytes low level of granulocytes
If any of these reactions occur, discontinue the use of Megamox.
stomach and intestinal disorders (possible fatal)
Symptoms: inflammation of the colon due to bacteria (antibiotic-associated colitis), inflammation of both the small intestine and the colon (enterocolitis), inflammation of the stomach lining (gastritis) painful swelling and sores inside the mouth
Discontinue the use of Megamox, if inflammation of the colon due to bacteria (antibiotic-associated colitis) occur. Appropriate electrolyte and fluid management, antibacterial treatment of inflammation of the colon, protein supplementation, and surgical evaluation should be recommended.
kidney disorder
Symptoms: blood in the urine (hematuria)
Inform your doctor immediately if you experience any of these side effects.
skin and immune system disorders such as allergic reaction (possibly fatal)
Symptoms: life-threatening skin reaction (Stevens-Johnson Syndrome), life-threatening drug-induced skin reaction (harmful epidermal necrolysis/drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS)), red skin rash with small pus-containing blisters (bullous exfoliative dermatitis), blisters and red, scaly rash with bumps under the skin (exanthemous pustulosis), flu-like symptoms, skin allergic reaction caused by infection (erythema multiforme), allergic reaction to an injection of foreign protein, swelling of the face or throat, inflammation of blood vessels (allergic vasculitis) life-threatening allergic reaction (anaphylactic reactions/anaphylaxis)
If an allergic reaction occurs, discontinue the use of Megamox, and appropriate therapy should be recommended.
central nervous system disorder
Symptoms: convulsions, inflammation of the brain and spinal cord membranes (aseptic meningitis), agitation, anxiety confusion
Inform your doctor immediately if you experience any of these side effects.
liver disorders (possible fatal)
Symptoms: inflammation of the liver (hepatitis), difficulty in the flow of liver secretions (cholestatic jaundice), increased aspartate aminotransferase increased alanine aminotransferase
Inform your doctor immediately if you experience any of these side effects.
Your doctor has prescribed Megamox Tablet because they judge that the benefit is greater than the risk posed by side-effects. Many people using this medicine do not have serious side-effects.