Mucophylline Syrup:
Mucophylline syrup is used for Sinusitis, Bronchitis, Bronchodilator, Breathing problems and other conditions. Mucophylline syrup may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Mucophylline syrup contains Acefylline Piperazine and Bromhexine as active ingredients.
Mucophylline syrup works by increasing the expansion of bronchial tubes; increasing the viscid or excessive mucus in respiratory tract thus making phlegm thinner;
Detailed information related to Mucophylline syrup's uses, composition, dosage, side effects and reviews is listed below.
Uses
Mucophylline syrup is used for the treatment, control, prevention, & improvement of the following diseases, conditions and symptoms:
Sinusitis
Bronchitis
Bronchodilator
Breathing problems
Mucophylline syrup may also be used for purposes not listed here.
Learn more: Uses
Side-effects
The following is a list of possible side-effects that may occur from all constituting ingredients of Mucophylline syrup. This is not a comprehensive list. These side-effects are possible, but do not always occur. Some of the side-effects may be rare but serious. Consult your doctor if you observe any of the following side-effects, especially if they do not go away.
Dizziness
Gastrointestinal disturbances
Skin rash
Itching
Nauesa
Vomiting
Diarrhea
Headache
Nocturnal enuresis
Mucophylline syrup may also cause side-effects not listed here.
If you notice other side-effects not listed above, contact your doctor for medical advice. You may also report side-effects to your local food and drug administration authority.
Precautions
Before using Mucophylline syrup, inform your doctor about your current list of medications, over the counter products (e.g. vitamins, herbal supplements, etc.), allergies, pre-existing diseases, and current health conditions (e.g. pregnancy, upcoming surgery, etc.). Some health conditions may make you more susceptible to the side-effects of the drug. Take as directed by your doctor or follow the direction printed on the product insert. Dosage is based on your condition. Tell your doctor if your condition persists or worsens. Important counseling points are listed below.
Consult your doctor if suffering from lung infection, breathing difficulty while resting, blood in the mucus, fever and chest pain, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, severe uncontrolled asthma, stomach ulcers, liver or kidney problems
Expect increase in lung secretions
In case of serious allergic reactions or developing skin lesions, stop taking this medicine and consult your doctor
Seek medical attention if symptoms last longer than 14 days or worsen after use of medication
do not inhale or swallow
Interactions with Mucophylline syrup
Please consult your physician or pharmacist or product package for this information.
When not to use Mucophylline syrup
Hypersensitivity to Mucophylline syrup is a contraindication. In addition, Mucophylline syrup should not be used if you have the following conditions:
Hypersensitivity
Composition and Active Ingredients
Mucophylline syrup is composed of the following active ingredients (salts)
Acefylline Piperazine
Bromhexine
Please note that this medicine may be available in various strengths for each active ingredient listed above.
Packages and Strengths
Mucophylline syrup is available in the following packages and strengths
Mucophylline syrup - Packages: 125 ml
Frequently asked Questions
Is Mucophylline syrup safe to use when pregnant?
Acefylline Piperazine: Please consult with your doctor for case-specific recommendations.
Bromhexine: Please consult with your doctor for case-specific recommendations.
Is Mucophylline syrup safe while breastfeeding?
Acefylline Piperazine: Please discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
Bromhexine: Please discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
Can Mucophylline syrup be used for sinusitis and bronchitis?
Yes, sinusitis and bronchitis are among the most common reported uses for Mucophylline syrup. Please do not use Mucophylline syrup for sinusitis and bronchitis without consulting first with your doctor. Click here and view survey results to find out what other patients report as common uses for Mucophylline syrup.
Is it safe to drive or operate heavy machinery when using this product?
If you experience drowsiness, dizziness, hypotension or a headache as side-effects when using Mucophylline syrup medicine then it may not be safe to drive a vehicle or operate heavy machinery. One should not drive a vehicle if using the medicine makes you drowsy, dizzy or lowers your blood-pressure extensively. Pharmacists also advise patients not to drink alcohol with medicines as alcohol intensifies drowsiness side-effects. Please check for these effects on your body when using Mucophylline syrup. Always consult with your doctor for recommendations specific to your body and health conditions.
Is this medicine or product addictive or habit forming?
Most medicines don't come with a potential for addiction or abuse. Usually, the government's categorizes medicines that can be addictive as controlled substances. Examples include schedule H or X in India and schedule II-V in the US. Please consult the product package to make sure that the medicine does not belong to such special categorizations of medicines. Lastly, do not self-medicate and increase your body's dependence to medicines without the advice of a doctor.
Can i stop using this product immediately or do I have to slowly wean off the use?
Some medicines need to be tapered or cannot be stopped immediately because of rebound effects. Please consult with your doctor for recommendations specific to your body, health and other medications that you may be using.
Other important Information on Mucophylline syrup
Missing a dose
In case you miss a dose, use it as soon as you notice. If it is close to the time of your next dose, skip the missed dose and resume your dosing schedule. Do not use extra dose to make up for a missed dose. If you are regularly missing doses, consider setting an alarm or asking a family member to remind you. Please consult your doctor to discuss changes in your dosing schedule or a new schedule to make up for missed doses, if you have missed too many doses recently.
Overdosage of Mucophylline syrup
Do not use more than prescribed dose. Taking more medication will not improve your symptoms; rather they may cause poisoning or serious side-effects. If you suspect that you or anyone else who may have overdosed of Mucophylline syrup, please go to the emergency department of the closest hospital or nursing home. Bring a medicine box, container, or label with you to help doctors with necessary information.
Do not give your medicines to other people even if you know that they have the same condition or it seems that they may have similar conditions. This may lead to overdosage.
Please consult your physician or pharmacist or product package for more information.
Storage of Mucophylline syrup
Store medicines at room temperature, away from heat and direct light. Do not freeze medicines unless required by package insert. Keep medicines away from children and pets.
Do not flush medications down the toilet or pour them into drainage unless instructed to do so. Medication discarded in this manner may contaminate the environment. Please consult your pharmacist or doctor for more details on how to safely discard Mucophylline syrup.
Expired Mucophylline syrup
Taking a single dose of expired Mucophylline syrup is unlikely to produce an adverse event. However, please discuss with your primary health provider or pharmacist for proper advice or if you feel unwell or sick. Expired drug may become ineffective in treating your prescribed conditions. To be on the safe side, it is important not to use expired drugs. If you have a chronic illness that requires taking medicine constantly such as heart condition, seizures, and life-threatening allergies, you are much safer keeping in touch with your primary health care provider so that you can have a fresh supply of unexpired medications.
Dosage Information
Please consult your physician or pharmacist or refer to the product package.