Overview
Neurovit Tablet is used for Anaemia, Vitamin b12 deficiency, Deficiency of vitamin b12, Neurological disorders, Nervous disorder, Thiamine deficiency, Heart problem, Neurological disturbances, Mental problems, Anemia and other conditions. Neurovit Tablet may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Neurovit Tablet contains Vitamin B1, Vitamin B12 and Vitamin B6 as active ingredients.
Neurovit Tablet works by metabolizing carbohydrate thus maintains normal growth; producing antibodies and hemoglobin by keeping blood sugar level in normal range; treating vitamin B12 deficiency;
Detailed information related to Neurovit Tablet's uses, composition, dosage, side effects and reviews is listed below.
Uses
Neurovit Tablet is used for the treatment, control, prevention, & improvement of the following diseases, conditions and symptoms:
Anaemia
Vitamin b12 deficiency
Deficiency of vitamin b12
Neurological disorders
Nervous disorder
Thiamine deficiency
Heart problem
Neurological disturbances
Mental problems
Anemia
Side-effects
The following is a list of possible side-effects that may occur from all constituting ingredients of Neurovit Tablet. This is not a comprehensive list. These side-effects are possible, but do not always occur. Some of the side-effects may be rare but serious. Consult your doctor if you observe any of the following side-effects, especially if they do not go away.
Restlessness
Itching of skin
Difficulty in swallowing
Coughing
Difficulty in breathing
Sweating
Feeling of warmth
Mild tenderness or hardening at the injection site
Breathing problems
Low blood pressure
Rashes
Feeling sick
Swelling of face, lips and eyelids
Allergic reactions
Skin irritation
Weakness
Nausea
Burning or sensation of tightness
Stomach upset
Prickling
Sleepiness
Tingling
Headache
Severe peripheral neuropathies
Swelling
Rapid weight gain
Diarrhea
Itching or mild rash
Precautions
Before using Neurovit Tablet, inform your doctor about your current list of medications, over the counter products (e.g. vitamins, herbal supplements, etc.), allergies, pre-existing diseases, and current health conditions (e.g. pregnancy, upcoming surgery, etc.). Some health conditions may make you more susceptible to the side-effects of the drug. Take as directed by your doctor or follow the direction printed on the product insert. Dosage is based on your condition. Tell your doctor if your condition persists or worsens. Important counseling points are listed below.
Folic acid deficiency
Iron deficiency
Kidney disease
Liver disease
Pregnant, planning to become pregnant or breastfeeding
Pregnant, planning to get pregnant or breastfeeding
Sinus congestion
Interactions with Neurovit Tablet
If you use other drugs or over the counter products at the same time, the effects of Neurovit Tablet may change. This may increase your risk for side-effects or cause your drug not to work properly. Tell your doctor about all the drugs, vitamins, and herbal supplements you are using, so that you doctor can help you prevent or manage drug interactions. Neurovit Tablet may interact with the following drugs and products:
Amiodarone
Arsenic trioxide
Chloramphenicol
Folic acid
Furosemide
Gabapentin
Hydrochlorothiazide
Levodopa
Levothyroxine
Lisinopril
When not to use Neurovit Tablet
Hypersensitivity to Neurovit Tablet is a contraindication. In addition, Neurovit Tablet should not be used if you have the following conditions:
Allergic reactions
Hypersensitivity
Leber's disease
Composition and Active Ingredients
Neurovit Tablet is composed of the following active ingredients (salts)
Vitamin B1
Vitamin B6
Vitamin B12
Please note that this medicine may be available in various strengths for each active ingredient listed above.
Packages and Strengths
Neurovit Tablet is available in the following packages and strengths
Neurovit Tablet - Packages: 20 tablets
Frequently asked Questions
Is Neurovit Tablet safe to use when pregnant?
Vitamin B1: Please consult with your doctor for case-specific recommendations.
Vitamin B6: Please consult with your doctor for case-specific recommendations.
Vitamin B12: Please consult with your doctor for case-specific recommendations.
Is Neurovit Tablet safe while breastfeeding?
Vitamin B1: Please discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
Vitamin B6: Please discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
Vitamin B12: Please discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
Can Neurovit Tablet be used for anaemia and vitamin b12 deficiency?
Yes, anaemia and vitamin b12 deficiency are among the most common reported uses for Neurovit Tablet. Please do not use Neurovit Tablet for anaemia and vitamin b12 deficiency without consulting first with your doctor. Click here and view survey results to find out what other patients report as common uses for Neurovit Tablet.
Should I use Neurovit Tablet empty stomach, before food or after food?
TabletWise.com website users have most commonly reported using Neurovit Tablet after food. However, this may not be reflective of how you should use this medicine. Please follow your doctor's advice on how you should use this medicine. Click here and view survey results to find out what other patients report as timing of using Neurovit Tablet.
Is it safe to drive or operate heavy machinery when using this product?
If you experience drowsiness, dizziness, hypotension or a headache as side-effects when using Neurovit Tablet medicine then it may not be safe to drive a vehicle or operate heavy machinery. One should not drive a vehicle if using the medicine makes you drowsy, dizzy or lowers your blood-pressure extensively. Pharmacists also advise patients not to drink alcohol with medicines as alcohol intensifies drowsiness side-effects. Please check for these effects on your body when using Neurovit Tablet. Always consult with your doctor for recommendations specific to your body and health conditions.
Is this medicine or product addictive or habit forming?
Most medicines don't come with a potential for addiction or abuse. Usually, the government's categorizes medicines that can be addictive as controlled substances. Examples include schedule H or X in India and schedule II-V in the US. Please consult the product package to make sure that the medicine does not belong to such special categorizations of medicines. Lastly, do not self-medicate and increase your body's dependence to medicines without the advice of a doctor.
Can i stop using this product immediately or do I have to slowly wean off the use?
Some medicines need to be tapered or cannot be stopped immediately because of rebound effects. Please consult with your doctor for recommendations specific to your body, health and other medications that you may be using.
Other important Information on Neurovit Tablet
Missing a dose
In case you miss a dose, use it as soon as you notice. If it is close to the time of your next dose, skip the missed dose and resume your dosing schedule. Do not use extra dose to make up for a missed dose. If you are regularly missing doses, consider setting an alarm or asking a family member to remind you. Please consult your doctor to discuss changes in your dosing schedule or a new schedule to make up for missed doses, if you have missed too many doses recently.
Overdosage of Neurovit Tablet
Do not use more than prescribed dose. Taking more medication will not improve your symptoms; rather they may cause poisoning or serious side-effects. If you suspect that you or anyone else who may have overdosed of Neurovit Tablet, please go to the emergency department of the closest hospital or nursing home. Bring a medicine box, container, or label with you to help doctors with necessary information.
Do not give your medicines to other people even if you know that they have the same condition or it seems that they may have similar conditions. This may lead to overdosage.
Please consult your physician or pharmacist or product package for more information.
Storage of Neurovit Tablet
Store medicines at room temperature, away from heat and direct light. Do not freeze medicines unless required by package insert. Keep medicines away from children and pets.
Do not flush medications down the toilet or pour them into drainage unless instructed to do so. Medication discarded in this manner may contaminate the environment. Please consult your pharmacist or doctor for more details on how to safely discard Neurovit Tablet.
Expired Neurovit Tablet
Taking a single dose of expired Neurovit Tablet is unlikely to produce an adverse event. However, please discuss with your primary health provider or pharmacist for proper advice or if you feel unwell or sick. Expired drug may become ineffective in treating your prescribed conditions. To be on the safe side, it is important not to use expired drugs. If you have a chronic illness that requires taking medicine constantly such as heart condition, seizures, and life-threatening allergies, you are much safer keeping in touch with your primary health care provider so that you can have a fresh supply of unexpired medications.