Overview
Oracure oral gel is used for Pain caused by mouth ulcers, Dental plaque, Gingivitis, Pain caused by anal or rectal problems, Skin infections, Eye infections, Periodontitis, Numbness, Pain caused by denture irritation, Before minor surgeries as local anesthetic and other conditions. Oracure oral gel may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Oracure oral gel contains Cetylpyridinium Chloride and Lidocaine as active ingredients.
Oracure oral gel works by killing the bacteria; stopping the sensation of pain by acting on peripheral nerves in the body;
Detailed information related to Oracure oral gel's uses, composition, dosage, side effects and reviews is listed below.
Uses
Oracure oral gel is used for the treatment, control, prevention, & improvement of the following diseases, conditions and symptoms:
Pain caused by mouth ulcers
Dental plaque
Gingivitis
Pain caused by anal or rectal problems
Skin infections
Eye infections
Periodontitis
Numbness
Pain caused by denture irritation
Before minor surgeries as local anesthetic
Oracure oral gel may also be used for purposes not listed here.

Side-effects
The following is a list of possible side-effects that may occur from all constituting ingredients of Oracure oral gel. This is not a comprehensive list. These side-effects are possible, but do not always occur. Some of the side-effects may be rare but serious. Consult your doctor if you observe any of the following side-effects, especially if they do not go away.
Skin irritation
Burning sensation
Diarrhea
Nausea
Vomiting
Dermatitis
Allergic reactions
Ulcers
Oracure oral gel may also cause side-effects not listed here.
Precautions
Before using Oracure oral gel, inform your doctor about your current list of medications, over the counter products (e.g. vitamins, herbal supplements, etc.), allergies, pre-existing diseases, and current health conditions (e.g. pregnancy, upcoming surgery, etc.). Some health conditions may make you more susceptible to the side-effects of the drug. Take as directed by your doctor or follow the direction printed on the product insert. Dosage is based on your condition. Tell your doctor if your condition persists or worsens. Important counseling points are listed below.
Children over 6 years of age
Do not apply frequently
Pregnant or breastfeeding
Taking other medicines
Use recommended quantity
Interactions with Oracure oral gel
If you use other drugs or over the counter products at the same time, the effects of Oracure oral gel may change. This may increase your risk for side-effects or cause your drug not to work properly. Tell your doctor about all the drugs, vitamins, and herbal supplements you are using, so that you doctor can help you prevent or manage drug interactions. Oracure oral gel may interact with the following drugs and products:
Alcuronium
Amphotericin B
Amprenavir
Atracurium
Cimetidine
Edrophonium
Enflurane
Fosphenytoin
Halothane
Nadolol
When not to use Oracure oral gel
Hypersensitivity to Oracure oral gel is a contraindication. In addition, Oracure oral gel should not be used if you have the following conditions:
Allergic to its ingredients
Children under 6 years of age
Children under the age of 12 years
Excess use
Open wounds or damaged areas
Composition and Active Ingredients
Oracure oral gel is composed of the following active ingredients (salts)
Cetylpyridinium Chloride
Lidocaine
Please note that this medicine may be available in various strengths for each active ingredient listed above.
Packages and Strengths
Oracure oral gel is available in the following packages and strengths
Oracure oral gel - Packages: 30 gram, 15 gram
Frequently asked Questions
Is Oracure oral gel safe to use when pregnant?
Cetylpyridinium Chloride: Please consult with your doctor for case-specific recommendations.
Lidocaine: Please consult with your doctor for case-specific recommendations.
Is Oracure oral gel safe while breastfeeding?
Cetylpyridinium Chloride: Please discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
Lidocaine: Please discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
Can Oracure oral gel be used for pain caused by mouth ulcers and dental plaque?
Yes, pain caused by mouth ulcers and dental plaque are among the most common reported uses for Oracure oral gel. Please do not use Oracure oral gel for pain caused by mouth ulcers and dental plaque without consulting first with your doctor. Click here and view survey results to find out what other patients report as common uses for Oracure oral gel.
How long do I need to use Oracure oral gel before I see improvement of my conditions?
TabletWise.com website users have reported within 2 hours and 1 week as the most common time it takes before they saw improvements in their conditions. These times may not be reflective of what you may experience or how you should use this medicine. Please consult with your doctor to check how long do you need to use Oracure oral gel. Click here and view survey results to find out what other patients report as time for effectiveness for Oracure oral gel.
At what frequency do I need to use Oracure oral gel?
TabletWise.com website users have reported thrice a day and once a day as the most common frequency of using Oracure oral gel. Please follow your doctor's advice on how often you need to Oracure oral gel. Click here and view survey results to find out what other patients report as frequency of using Oracure oral gel.
Is it safe to drive or operate heavy machinery when using this product?
If you experience drowsiness, dizziness, hypotension or a headache as side-effects when using Oracure oral gel medicine then it may not be safe to drive a vehicle or operate heavy machinery. One should not drive a vehicle if using the medicine makes you drowsy, dizzy or lowers your blood-pressure extensively. Pharmacists also advise patients not to drink alcohol with medicines as alcohol intensifies drowsiness side-effects. Please check for these effects on your body when using Oracure oral gel. Always consult with your doctor for recommendations specific to your body and health conditions.
Is this medicine or product addictive or habit forming?
Most medicines don't come with a potential for addiction or abuse. Usually, the government's categorizes medicines that can be addictive as controlled substances. Examples include schedule H or X in India and schedule II-V in the US. Please consult the product package to make sure that the medicine does not belong to such special categorizations of medicines. Lastly, do not self-medicate and increase your body's dependence to medicines without the advice of a doctor.
Can i stop using this product immediately or do I have to slowly wean off the use?
Some medicines need to be tapered or cannot be stopped immediately because of rebound effects. Please consult with your doctor for recommendations specific to your body, health and other medications that you may be using.
Other important Information on Oracure oral gel
Missing a dose
In case you miss a dose, use it as soon as you notice. If it is close to the time of your next dose, skip the missed dose and resume your dosing schedule. Do not use extra dose to make up for a missed dose. If you are regularly missing doses, consider setting an alarm or asking a family member to remind you. Please consult your doctor to discuss changes in your dosing schedule or a new schedule to make up for missed doses, if you have missed too many doses recently.
Overdosage of Oracure oral gel
Do not use more than prescribed dose. Taking more medication will not improve your symptoms; rather they may cause poisoning or serious side-effects. If you suspect that you or anyone else who may have overdosed of Oracure oral gel, please go to the emergency department of the closest hospital or nursing home. Bring a medicine box, container, or label with you to help doctors with necessary information.
Do not give your medicines to other people even if you know that they have the same condition or it seems that they may have similar conditions. This may lead to overdosage.
Please consult your physician or pharmacist or product package for more information.
Storage of Oracure oral gel
Store medicines at room temperature, away from heat and direct light. Do not freeze medicines unless required by package insert. Keep medicines away from children and pets.
Do not flush medications down the toilet or pour them into drainage unless instructed to do so. Medication discarded in this manner may contaminate the environment. Please consult your pharmacist or doctor for more details on how to safely discard Oracure oral gel.
Expired Oracure oral gel
Taking a single dose of expired Oracure oral gel is unlikely to produce an adverse event. However, please discuss with your primary health provider or pharmacist for proper advice or if you feel unwell or sick. Expired drug may become ineffective in treating your prescribed conditions. To be on the safe side, it is important not to use expired drugs. If you have a chronic illness that requires taking medicine constantly such as heart condition, seizures, and life-threatening allergies, you are much safer keeping in touch with your primary health care provider so that you can have a fresh supply of unexpired medications.