PRIDOCAINE CREAM 15 GM:
ACTIVE-INGREDIENT OF PRIDOCAINE CREAM 15 GM
CREAM contains : lidocaine 2.5 % & prilocaine 2.5 % .

INDICATIONS OF PRIDOCAINE CREAM 15 GM
local anesthetic for topical use to produce surface anesthesia of the skin for : – minor dermatological procedures under occlusive dressing . Like Needle insertion and surgical treatment of localized lesions .

Venipuncture for blood sampling , intravenous or arterial cannulation . dermal procedures on larger areas under occlusive dressing , eg . split skin grafting . * for topical use on the genital mucosa to facilitate the removal of warts in adults.

This medication contains 2 amide-type local anesthetics, lidocaine and prilocaine. It is used on normal, unbroken skin or on the outer genital area to prevent pain before certain procedures such as inserting a needle, skin grafts, or skin laser surgery. It works by temporarily numbing the skin and surrounding area. Do not use this product in the ears. If this product alone cannot completely numb the area being treated; it may be used to numb the area before a lidocaine injection is given to provide enough pain relief for certain procedures (e.g., removal of genital warts)

DOSAGE OF PRIDOCAINE CREAM 15 GM
Follow all directions given to you by your pharmacist or doctor carefully . They may differ from the information contained in this leaflet

 

How to use Pridocaine ( lidocaine-prilocaine) topical ?
Read the Patient Information Leaflet if available from your pharmacist before you start using lidocaine /prilocaine cream and each time you get a refill. If you have any questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
Use this medication only on normal skin and the genital area. Do not apply to broken/irritated skin open wounds unless directed by your doctor.
Apply this product to the area at the proper time as directed. The length of time for the medication to stay on the skin depends on the type of procedure you are having. It is usually applied at least 1 hour before needle sticks and 2 hours before minor skin procedures. It may be applied by a health care professional before certain genital procedures. In this case, it is recommended that you remain lying down so the medication will stay in place.
To apply, squeeze out the prescribed amount of cream directly onto the skin. You can also squeeze it onto a measuring guide to make sure you get the right dose and then apply it to the area. Do not rub in. Cover with an airtight dressing/bandage as directed by your doctor. Allow the cream to remain in place, usually in a thick layer, as directed by your doctor. Remove the dressing and cream and clean the area thoroughly, usually shortly before the procedure or as directed by your doctor.
 

What is the dosage and other Precautions ?
Dosage and length of application time are based on your age and medical condition and the procedure you are having. In children, dosage may also be based on weight.  Do not use larger amounts than prescribed. Do not use on large areas of skin, apply heat, or leave it in place longer than directed or serious side effects may occur.
If you are applying this product on a child, make sure the medication stays in place and that your child does not put the medication or dressing/bandage in his/her mouth.
 You may want to use a second covering to prevent the child from touching the cream.
Wash hands immediately after use unless you are treating an area on the hands. Avoid getting the product in your eyes, nose, ears, or mouth. If this medication gets in the eyes, rinse the affected eye immediately and completely with water or saline. Numbness in the eye can lead to injury because you cannot feel particles in the eye or other dangers. Therefore, protect the eye until feeling returns.
The area may be numb for several hours after the procedure. Protect the area from injury. Be careful not to bump, rub, or scratch the area or expose it to heat/cold until feeling returns.
 

 

What are the Side effects ?
Redness, swelling, tingling/burning, or lightening of the skin may occur. If any of these effects persist or worsen, tell your doctor or pharmacist promptly.
Remember that your doctor has prescribed this medication because he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects. Many people using this medication do not have serious side effects.
Notify your doctor right away if you develop blistering of the skin.
Remove the cream and get medical help right away if any of these rare but very serious side effects occur: slow/shallow breathing, dizziness fast/slow/irregular heartbeat, mental/mood changes (e.g., confusion, nervousness), seizures severe drowsiness, pale/bluish/gray skin, unusual tiredness, shortness of breath.
A very serious allergic reaction to this drug is rare. However, seek immediate medical attention if you notice any symptoms of a serious allergy including: rash, itching /swelling (especially of the face/tongue /throat), severe dizziness, trouble breathing.
 

what are the Precautions when using Pridocaine Cream ?
Before using this product, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to lidocaine or prilocaine; or to any other amide anesthetics (e.g., bupivacaine); or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Talk to your pharmacist for more details.
Before using this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist your medical history, especially of: heart disease (e.g., irregular heartbeat), kidney disease, liver disease, a certain blood disorder (methemoglobinemia).
Caution is advised when using this drug in the elderly because they may be more sensitive to the effects of the drug, especially the dizziness effect.
During pregnancy, this medication should be used only when clearly needed. Discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
Lidocaine passes into breast milk. It is unknown if prilocaine passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding.
 

What are the alternatives of Pridocaine Cream ?
Xylocaine Spray

Lidocaine Spray

Lignocaine Gel 

STORAGE OF PRIDOCAINE CREAM 15 GM
keep out of reach of children . Store at temperature not exceeding 30 °C .
PACK OF PRIDOCAINE CREAM 15 GM
tubes of 15 g .
PRIDOCAINE CREAM 15 GM MANUFACTURED BY
GLOBAL NAPI PHARMACEUTICALS .