Primrose plus:
What Is Evening Primrose?
The plant, native to North America, has yellow flowers that open at night. That's how it got its name. Traditionally, Native Americans used different parts of the plant, like the leaves and roots, for medicine. Evening primrose oil comes from the seeds.

How It's Used
The oil has an omega-6 fatty acid, gamma-linolenic acid, which is also found in black currant and borage oils. It may help your body fight inflammation, among other possible effects. It's usually sold in capsule form, and you take it by mouth. People sometimes break the capsules and put the oil directly on their skin. You can also buy bottles of liquid oil.
Younger-Looking Ski
There's no shortage of beauty blogs touting the anti-aging, wrinkle-fighting powers of evening primrose oil. And there are plenty of fancy face serums that use evening primrose oil, too. But very few studies have looked at how it works compared to other types of oils.
ADH
One small study of children ages 6-12 with ADHD found that, after 6 months, kids who took evening primrose oil and fish oil were better at paying attention and acted less impulsively. It's unclear which is the one that helps or if it was the combination. And there's no other convincing research showing that evening primrose does anything to help ADHD

About EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL
EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL is a supplement that helps to treat skin problems like acne and eczema. It also treats breast pain and premenstrual syndrome symptoms (PMS) like irritability. It may also be used to treat rheumatoid arthritis. A lack of essential fatty acids may cause hormonal imbalance and lead to skin problems like acne, eczema, rosacea, and allergies. 
EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL contains Evening Primerose oil that plays an important role in regulating hormones. It works by reducing skin inflammation and lesions. EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL may also help the skin retain moisture, elasticity, and firmness.
Use EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL as recommended by your doctor. Some people may experience nausea, stomach upset, tiredness, and diarrhoea. Most of these side effects of EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL do not require medical attention and gradually resolve over time. However, if the side effects persist or worsen, please consult your doctor.
Do not take EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL if you are allergic to any components present in it. If you are pregnant or a nursing mother, consult a doctor before using EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL. If you take any medicines or supplements, talk to your doctor before using EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL. Do not give EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL to a child without medical advice. You should inform your doctor that you are taking EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL before surgery.
Uses of EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL
Acne (pimples), Eczema, Breast pain, and Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) symptoms.
Medicinal Benefits
EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL contains a nutritional supplement, namely, Evening Primerose oil. Evening Primerose oil contains gamma-linoleic acid (GLA), linoleic acid (LA), and omega-6 fatty acids, which play an important role in regulating hormones and promoting skin elasticity. Evening Primerose oil works by reducing skin inflammation and lesions. It may also help the skin retain moisture, elasticity, and firmness. It is highly effective in treating premenstrual syndrome (PMS) symptoms such as irritability and bloating.
Directions for Use
Swallow it as a whole with water; do not crush, break or chew it.
Storage
Store in a cool and dry place away from sunlight
Side Effects of EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL
•	Upset stomach
•	Nausea
•	Headache
•	Diarrhoea
•	Tiredness
In-Depth Precautions and Warning
Drug Warnings
If you are allergic to EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL or any other medicines, please tell your doctor. If you are pregnant or a nursing mother it is advised to consult a doctor before using EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL. If you have a history of blood disorders, seizures (fits), liver disease, kidney disease, or heart problems, please inform your doctor before using EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL. If you are taking any medicines or supplements, talk to your doctor before using EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL. Do not give EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL to a child without medical advice. You are recommended to inform your doctor that you are taking EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL before undergoing surgery.
Drug Interactions
Drug-Drug Interactions: EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL may have an interaction with anticoagulants and anti-platelet medicines (e.g. clopidogrel, ticagrelor), medicines used to reduce the risk of heart attack and stroke (e.g. lovastatin), HIV medications (e.g. lopinavir, ritonavir), and medicines used to treat severe mental & emotional disorders (e.g. chlorpromazine, fluphenazine).
Drug-Food Interactions:  No interactions found or established.
Drug-Disease Interactions: Before using EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL, let your doctor know if you have a bleeding or blood clotting disorder, seizures (fits), liver, kidney or heart diseases.
How does EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL work?
EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL works by reducing skin inflammation and lesions. It may also help the skin retain moisture, elasticity, firmness, and fatigue resistance.
Will I need to stop EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL before surgery?
Your doctor may probably tell you to stop taking EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL if you are due to undergo surgery. EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL causes blood thining when combined with general anaesthesia before surgery. So, please inform your doctor if you are taking EVENING PRIMEROSE OIL.
What if I miss a dose?
If you miss a dose, take it as soon as you remember. However, if it is almost time for the scheduled dose, skip the missed dose and take the scheduled dose.
What if I miss a dose?
If you miss a dose, take it as soon as you remember. However, if it is almost time for the scheduled dose, skip the missed dose and take the scheduled dose.

