Overview
Sediproct cream is used for Relief of pain and itching due to hemorrhoids, Pain, Swelling and inflammation of skin, Inflammatory skin disorders, Itchy skin rashes, Insect bite reactions, Hormonal conditions, Immune problems, Allergic reactions, Arthritis, Blood diseases and other conditions. Sediproct cream may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Sediproct cream contains Cinchocaine and Hydrocortisone as active ingredients.
Sediproct cream works by blocking the functioning of pain causing nerves; decreasing the number of blood cells that cause inflammation and allergy;
Detailed information related to Sediproct cream's uses, composition, dosage, side effects and reviews is listed below.
Uses
Sediproct cream is used for the treatment, control, prevention, & improvement of the following diseases, conditions and symptoms:
Relief of pain and itching due to hemorrhoids
Pain, swelling and inflammation of skin
Inflammatory skin disorders
Itchy skin rashes
Insect bite reactions
Hormonal conditions
Immune problems
Allergic reactions
Arthritis
Blood diseases
Sediproct cream may also be used for purposes not listed here.
Side-effects
The following is a list of possible side-effects that may occur from all constituting ingredients of Sediproct cream. This is not a comprehensive list. These side-effects are possible, but do not always occur. Some of the side-effects may be rare but serious. Consult your doctor if you observe any of the following side-effects, especially if they do not go away.
Redness
Irritation
Swelling
Bleeding
Cushing's habitus
Peptic ulceration
Fluid retention
Potassium or calcium depletion
Muscle wasting
Stomach pain
Gastrointestinal disturbances
Increased appetite
Delayed wound healing
Bruising
Striae
Excessive hairiness
Acne
Flushing
Headache
Depression
Loss of contact with reality
Menstrual irregularity
Suppression of pituitary-adrenocortical system
Dermal atrophy
Excess of glucose in the bloodstream
Susceptibility to infection
Bones become brittle
Growth retardation
Foetal abnormalities
Topical application to the eye
Rash intraocular pressure
Reduced visual function
Posterior subcapsular cataract
Sediproct cream may also cause side-effects not listed here.
Precautions
Before using Sediproct cream, inform your doctor about your current list of medications, over the counter products (e.g. vitamins, herbal supplements, etc.), allergies, pre-existing diseases, and current health conditions (e.g. pregnancy, upcoming surgery, etc.). Some health conditions may make you more susceptible to the side-effects of the drug. Take as directed by your doctor or follow the direction printed on the product insert. Dosage is based on your condition. Tell your doctor if your condition persists or worsens. Important counseling points are listed below.
Consult your doctor if the skin condition does not improve after application at prescribed dose and duration
Do not apply plasters or dressings over the cream
Do not drive or use machinery
Do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator
Do not use more than directed
For external use only
Inform your doctor if you are allergic to hydrocortisone
Report to doctor if condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days
Stop use and ask a doctor if bleeding occurs
Interactions with Sediproct cream
If you use other drugs or over the counter products at the same time, the effects of Sediproct cream may change. This may increase your risk for side-effects or cause your drug not to work properly. Tell your doctor about all the drugs, vitamins, and herbal supplements you are using, so that you doctor can help you prevent or manage drug interactions. Sediproct cream may interact with the following drugs and products:
Aminoglutethimide
Amobarbital
Amphotericin B
Ascorbic acid
Aspirin
Carbamazepine
Furosemide
Gentamicin
Ipilimumab
Lofexidine
When not to use Sediproct cream
Hypersensitivity to Sediproct cream is a contraindication. In addition, Sediproct cream should not be used if you have the following conditions:
Allergic reactions
Allergic reactions to this drug
Breastfeeding
Children below the age of 5 years
Epilepsy
New born babies
Osteoporosis
Peptic ulcer
Pregnant
Premature infants
Composition and Active Ingredients
Sediproct cream is composed of the following active ingredients (salts)
Cinchocaine
Hydrocortisone
Please note that this medicine may be available in various strengths for each active ingredient listed above.
Packages and Strengths
Sediproct cream is available in the following packages and strengths
Sediproct cream - Packages: 20 tube
Frequently asked Questions
Is Sediproct cream safe to use when pregnant?
Cinchocaine: Please consult with your doctor for case-specific recommendations.
Hydrocortisone: No
Is Sediproct cream safe while breastfeeding?
Cinchocaine: Please discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
Hydrocortisone: No
Can Sediproct cream be used for relief of pain and itching due to hemorrhoids and pain, swelling and inflammation of skin?
Yes, relief of pain and itching due to hemorrhoids and pain, swelling and inflammation of skin are among the most common reported uses for Sediproct cream. Please do not use Sediproct cream for relief of pain and itching due to hemorrhoids and pain, swelling and inflammation of skin without consulting first with your doctor. Click here and view survey results to find out what other patients report as common uses for Sediproct cream.
At what frequency do I need to use Sediproct cream?
TabletWise.com website users have reported twice a day and once a week as the most common frequency of using Sediproct cream. Please follow your doctor's advice on how often you need to Sediproct cream. Click here and view survey results to find out what other patients report as frequency of using Sediproct cream.
Should I use Sediproct cream empty stomach, before food or after food?
TabletWise.com website users have most commonly reported using Sediproct cream anytime. However, this may not be reflective of how you should use this medicine. Please follow your doctor's advice on how you should use this medicine. Click here and view survey results to find out what other patients report as timing of using Sediproct cream.
Is it safe to drive or operate heavy machinery when using this product?
If you experience drowsiness, dizziness, hypotension or a headache as side-effects when using Sediproct cream medicine then it may not be safe to drive a vehicle or operate heavy machinery. One should not drive a vehicle if using the medicine makes you drowsy, dizzy or lowers your blood-pressure extensively. Pharmacists also advise patients not to drink alcohol with medicines as alcohol intensifies drowsiness side-effects. Please check for these effects on your body when using Sediproct cream. Always consult with your doctor for recommendations specific to your body and health conditions.
Is this medicine or product addictive or habit forming?
Most medicines don't come with a potential for addiction or abuse. Usually, the government's categorizes medicines that can be addictive as controlled substances. Examples include schedule H or X in India and schedule II-V in the US. Please consult the product package to make sure that the medicine does not belong to such special categorizations of medicines. Lastly, do not self-medicate and increase your body's dependence to medicines without the advice of a doctor.
Can i stop using this product immediately or do I have to slowly wean off the use?
Some medicines need to be tapered or cannot be stopped immediately because of rebound effects. Please consult with your doctor for recommendations specific to your body, health and other medications that you may be using.
Other important Information on Sediproct cream
Missing a dose
In case you miss a dose, use it as soon as you notice. If it is close to the time of your next dose, skip the missed dose and resume your dosing schedule. Do not use extra dose to make up for a missed dose. If you are regularly missing doses, consider setting an alarm or asking a family member to remind you. Please consult your doctor to discuss changes in your dosing schedule or a new schedule to make up for missed doses, if you have missed too many doses recently.
