Why it's used
Zyrtec Oral Drops is used to relieve the symptoms of allergic inflammation of the nasal airways due to allergens. This medicine works by blocking the action of an allergic substance in the body. Zyrtec Oral is also used to relieve allergic symptoms present throughout the year (perennial allergic rhinitis). It is also used to treat long-term hives induced by allergies caused by food or medicines.
Antihistamines
Zyrtec Oral belongs to a class of medicines called Antihistamines. Antihistamines help in relieving allergic symptoms. They do so by blocking the effects of histamines. Histamines are produced by the body and in-turn cause fever, itching, sneezing, a runny nose, or watery eyes in allergic conditions.
How to use
Read the directions on the product label, patient guide, or medicine guide provided by the medicine company or your pharmacist before starting to use Zyrtec Oral Drops. If you have any questions related to this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. Use this medicine as recommended by your doctor.
Zyrtec Oral Drops is used with or without food.
Typical Dosage
The typical dose of Zyrtec Oral is 5 mg-10 mg once a day. The usual dose for children is 5 mg/5 ml-10 mg/10 ml (1-2 teaspoons) once daily for children 6-11 years in case of syrup formulation. Zyrtec Oral is commonly used at the same time every day.
To decrease the possibility of side-effects, you might be recommended to use the extended-release form of this medicine by your doctor. The extended-release medicine helps in maintaining a steady level of the medicine in your body for a longer period of time. Do not crush or chew the medicine, unless indicated on the package or by your doctor.
If you are using the chewable tablet form of this medicine, make sure you chew the medicine before you swallow it.
If using the liquid form of this medicine, measure the dose using the provided measuring cup, spoon, or dropper. Before pouring the medicine into the measuring device, you should check the measurement markings carefully. Then, pour the dose amount into the device. After use, clean and store the measuring device in a safe place for your next use. You should not use a tablespoon or teaspoon as the dose measuring devices since it can result in an incorrect dose. If indicated on the product package, shake the medicine before use.
How to take Zyrtec Oral
The dose and frequency of using Zyrtec Oral will depend on the following factors:
age of the patient
patient's health
the health of the patient's liver
the health of the patient's kidneys
medicines recommended by the doctor
any other medicines being used
herbal supplements being used
response to the medicine
Zyrtec Oral Dosage
Dosage for seasonal respiratory allergies and hives
Adult
Recommended: 5 -10 mg once daily
Maximum: 10 mg/day
Children (children of 6 years and above)
Recommended: 5-10 mg once daily
Maximum: 10 mg/day
Children (2-5 years)
Initial: 2.5 mg /2.5 ml (½ teaspoon) once daily (for syrup)
Maximum: 2.5 mg /2.5 ml (½ teaspoon) every 12 hours or 5 mg/ 5ml (1 teaspoon) per day (for syrup)
Children (6 months to less than 2 years)
Recommended: 2.5 mg /2.5 ml (½ teaspoon) once daily (for syrup)
Maximum: 2.5 mg /2.5 ml (½ teaspoon) every 12 hours or 5 mg/ 5ml (1 teaspoon) per day (for syrup)
Children (6 -11 years)
Initial: 5 mg/5 ml or 10 mg/10 ml (1 or 2 teaspoons) once daily (for syrup)
Older Adults
Recommended: 10 mg/day
Minimum Age
6 months
Zyrtec Oral Side-effects
The following side-effects may commonly occur when using Zyrtec Oral Drops. If any of these side-effects worsen or last for a long time, you should consult with your doctor:
bleeding from the nose (epistaxis)
coughing
diarrhea
dizziness
dry mouth
fatigue
headache
inflammation of the pharynx
nausea
pain or irritation of the throat
sleepiness
stomach pain
tightening of the muscles of lungs (bronchospasm)
tiredness
vomiting
The following side-effects may commonly occur in children when using Zyrtec Oral Drops. Discuss with your doctor if any of these side-effects last for a long time or are severe:
bleeding from the nose
coughing
diarrhea
fatigue
headache
inflammation inside the nose
inflammation of the pharynx
nausea
sleepiness
stomach pain
tightening of the muscles of lungs
vomiting
Rarely, the use of Zyrtec Oral Drops may cause the following side-effects:
a feeling of excitement
abnormal bleeding between periods
abnormal coordination
abnormal growth in the nasal passage
abnormal hair growth on the body
abnormal sensation of tingling
acne
aggression
agitation
allergic reaction to a medicine
amnesia
back pain
bad dreams
blindness
chest pain
convulsions
damage of ear
dark feces with blood
deafness
decreased interest in sex
decreased taste sensitivity
dehydration
difficulty in speaking
difficulty in urination
drooping of the upper eyelid
dry skin
dryness of the eye
ear pain
enlarged stomach
excessive production of urine
facial swelling
fainting
feeling of discomfort
female breast pain
fluid-filled blisters
flushing
gas formation in the stomach
hair loss
hives
hot flashes
inability to control urination
inability to properly identify the smell
increase in physical sensitivity
increased appetite
increased muscle tone
increased salivation
increased sweating
increased weight
indigestion
inflammation inside the nose
inflammation of the lung
inflammation of the urinary bladder
inflammation of the vagina
insomnia
itchy inflammation of the skin
joint pain
lack of energy
leg cramps
leg swelling due to fluid build up in the legs
liver function abnormal
loss of ability of the eyes to focus
loss of body movements
memory problems
migraine
mood changes
muscle pain
muscle weakness
nervousness
painful periods
painful swelling and sores inside the mouth
painful swelling of the joint
painful urination
palpitation
rashes due to allergic reactions
ringing in the ears
severe itching of the skin
skin nodule
swelling around the eyes
swollen and enlarged lymph nodes
swollen tongue
swollen veins in anus and rectum
thickening of the skin
thirst
tongue discoloration
tooth cavities
tremor
uncontrolled muscle movement (dystonia/dyskinesia/tics/hyperkinesia)
vertigo
whitish or yellowish discharge from the vagina
The following severe side-effects may also occur when using Zyrtec Oral Drops:
life-threatening allergic reaction |
mental disorders
Symptoms: confusion, depression, hallucinations, anxiety suicidal thoughts
nervous system disorder
Symptoms: inflammation of the spinal cord (myelitis), eating disorder (anorexia) inability to completely empty the bladder
stomach or intestinal disorders
Symptoms: constipation, inflammation of the stomach (gastritis) bleeding in the rectum (rectal hemorrhage)
urinary and genital disorders
Symptoms: blood in the urine urinary tract infection
blood and lymphatic disorder
Symptoms: low levels of thrombocytes in the blood
metabolism and nutrition disorder
Symptoms: high blood glucose levels
eye disorders
Symptoms: inflammation of the eye (conjunctivitis), damage to eye nerve (glaucoma) bleeding in the eyes (ocular hemorrhage)
heart disorders
Symptoms: heart failure, high blood pressure rapid heart rate
skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
Symptoms: swelling of the lower layer of the skin allergic reaction to the sun
Your doctor has prescribed Zyrtec Oral Drops because they judge that the benefit is greater than the risk posed by side-effects. Many people using this medicine do not have serious side-effects. This page does not list all possible side-effects of Zyrtec Oral Drops.
